"SPARTA WWW Site"_sws - "SPARTA Documentation"_sd - "SPARTA Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,https://sparta.github.io)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

collide_modify command :h3

[Syntax:]

collide_modify keyword values ...  :pre

one or more keyword/value pairs may be listed :ulb,l
keywords = {vremax} or {remain} or {ambipolar} or {nearcp} or {rotate} or {vibrate} :l
  {vremax} values = Nevery startflag
    Nevery = zero vremax every this many timesteps
    startflag = {yes} or {no} = zero vremax at start of every run
  {remain} value = {yes} or {no} = hold remaining fraction of collisions over to next timestep
  {nearcp} values = choice Nlimit
    choice = {yes} or {no} to turn on/off near collision partners
    Nlimit = max # of attempts made to find a collision partner
  {ambipolar} value = {no} or {yes}
  {rotate} value = {no} or {smooth}
  {vibrate} value = {no} or {smooth} or {discrete} :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

collide_modify vremax 1000 yes
collide_modify vremax 0 no remain no
collide_modify ambipolar yes :pre

[Description:]

Set parameters that affect how collisions are performed.

The {vremax} keyword affects how often the Vremax parameter, for
collision frequency is re-zeroed during the simulation.  This
parameter is stored for each grid cell and each pair of collision
groups (groups are described by the "collide"_collide.html command).

The value of Vremax affects how many events are attempted in each grid
cell for a pair of groups, and thus the overall time spent performing
collisions.  Vremax is continuously set to the largest difference in
velocity between a pair of colliding particles.  The larger Vremax
grows, the more collisions are attempted for the grid cell on each
timestep, though this does not affect the number of collisions
actually performed.  Thus if Vremax grows large, collisions become
less efficient, though still accurate.

For non-equilibrium flows, it is typically desirable to reset Vremax
to zero fairly frequently (e.g. every 1000 steps) so that it does not
become large, due to anomolously fast moving particles.  In contrast,
when a system is at equilibrium, it is typically desirable to not
reset Vremax to zero since it will also stay roughly constant.

If {Nevery} is specified as 0, Vremax is not zeroed during a run.
Otherwise Vremax is zeroed on timesteps that are a multiple of
{Nevery}.  Additionally, if {startflag} is set to {yes}, Vremax is
zeroed at the start of every run.  If it is set to {no}, it is not.

The {remain} keyword affects how the number of attempted collisions
for each grid cell is calculated each timestep.  If the value is set
to {yes}, then any fractional collision count (for each grid cell and
pair of grgroups) is carried over to the next timestep.  E.g. if the
computed collision count is 7.3, then 7 attempts are made on this
timestep, and 0.3 are carried over to the next timestep, to be added
to the computed collision count for that step.  If the value is set to
{no}, then no carry-over is made.  Instead, in this example, 7
attempts are made and an 8th attempt is made conditionally with a
probability of 0.3, using a random number.

The {nearcp} keyword stands for "near collision partner" and affects
how collision partners are selected.  If {no} is specified, which is
the default, then collision partner pairs are selected randomly from
all particles in the grid cell.  In this case the {Nlimit} parameter
is ignored, though it must still be specfied.  

If {yes} is specified, then up to {Nlimit} collision partners are
considered for each collision.  The first partner I is chosen randomly
from all particles in the grid cell.  A distance R that particle I
moves in that timestep is calculated, based on its velocity.  {Nlimit}
possible collision partners J are examined, starting at a random J.
If one of them is within a distance R of particle I, it is immediately
selected as the collision partner.  If none of the {Nlimit} particles
are within a distance R, the closest J particle to I is selected.  An
exception to these rules is that a particle J is not considered for a
collision if the I,J pair were the most recent collision partners (in
the current timestep) for each other.  The convergence properties of
this near-neighbor algorithm are described in "(Gallis11)"_#Gallis11.
Note that choosing {Nlimit} judiciously will avoid costly searches
when there are large numbers of particles in some or all grid cells.

If the {ambipolar} keyword is set to {yes}, then collisions within a
grid cell with use the ambipolar approximation.  This requires use of
the "fix ambipolar"_fix_ambipolar.html command to define which species
is an electron and which species are ions.  There can be many of the
latter.  When collisions within a single grid cell are performed, each
ambipolar ion is split into two particles, the ion and an associated
electron.  Collisions between the augmented set of particles are
calculated.  Ion/electron chemistry can also occur if the
"react"_react.html command has been used to read a file of reactions
that include such reactions.  See the "react"_react.html command doc
page.  After all collisions in the grid cell have been computed, there
is still a one-to-one correspondence between ambipolar ions and
electron, and each pair is recombined into a single ambipolar
particle.

The {rotate} keyword determines how rotational energy is treated in
particle collisions and stored by particles.  If the value is set to
{no}, then rotational energy is not tracked; every particle's
rotational energy is 0.0.  If the value is set to {smooth}, a
particle's rotational energy is a single continuous value.

The {vibrate} keyword determines how vibrational energy is treated in
particle collisions and stored by particles.  If the value is set to
{no}, then vibrational energy is not tracked; every particle's
vibrational energy is 0.0.  If the value is set to {smooth}, a
particle's vibrational energy is a single continuous value.  If the
value is set to {discrete}, each particle's vibrational energy is set
to discrete values, namely multiples of kT where k = the Boltzmann
constant and T is one or more characteristic vibrational temperatures
set for the particle species.

Note that in the {discrete} case, if any species are defined that have
4,6,8 vibrational degrees of freedom, which correspond to 2,3,4
vibrational modes, then the "species"_species.html command must be
used with its optional {vibfile} keyword to set the vibrational info
(temperature, relaxation number, degeneracy) for those species.

Also note that if any such species are defined (with more than one
vibrational mode, then use of the {discrete} option also requires the
"fix vibmode"_fix_vibmode.html command be used to allocate storage for
the per-particle mode values.

:line

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:]

"collide"_collide.html

[Default:]

The option defaults are vremax = (0,yes), remain = yes, ambipolar no,
nearcp no, rotate smooth, and vibrate = no.

:line

:link(Gallis11)

[(Gallis11)] M. A. Gallis, J. R. Torczynski, "Effect of
Collision-Partner Selection Schemes on the Accuracy and Efficiency of
the Direct Simulation Monte Carlo Method," International Journal for
Numerical Methods in Fluids, 67(8):1057-1072. DOI:10.1002/fld.2409
(2011).
