"SPARTA WWW Site"_sws - "SPARTA Documentation"_sd - "SPARTA Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,https://sparta.github.io)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

compute temp command :h3
compute temp/kk command :h3

[Syntax:]

compute ID temp :pre

ID is documented in "compute"_compute.html command
temp = style name of this compute command :ul

[Examples:]

compute 1 temp
compute myTemp temp :pre

[Description:]

Define a computation that calculates the temperature of all particles.

The temperature is calculated by the formula KE = dim/2 N kB T, where
KE = total kinetic energy of the particles (sum of 1/2 m v^2), dim =
dimensionality of the simulation, N = number of particles, kB =
Boltzmann constant, and T = temperature.

Note that this definition of temperature does not subtract out a net
streaming velocity for particles, so it is not a thermal temperature
when the particles have a non-zero streaming velocity.  See the
"compute thermal/grid"_compute_thermal_grid.html command for
calculation of thermal temperatures on a per grid cell basis.

:line

[Output info:]

This compute calculates a global scalar (the temperature).  This value
can be used by any command that uses global scalar values from a
compute as input.  See "Section 6.4"_Section_howto.html#howto_4 for an
overview of SPARTA output options.

The scalar value will be in temperature "units"_units.html.

:line

Styles with a {kk} suffix are functionally the same as the
corresponding style without the suffix.  They have been optimized to
run faster, depending on your available hardware, as discussed in the
"Accelerating SPARTA"_Section_accelerate.html section of the manual.
The accelerated styles take the same arguments and should produce the
same results, except for different random number, round-off and
precision issues.

These accelerated styles are part of the KOKKOS package. They are only
enabled if SPARTA was built with that package.  See the "Making
SPARTA"_Section_start.html#start_3 section for more info.

You can specify the accelerated styles explicitly in your input script
by including their suffix, or you can use the "-suffix command-line
switch"_Section_start.html#start_6 when you invoke SPARTA, or you can
use the "suffix"_suffix.html command in your input script.

See the "Accelerating SPARTA"_Section_accelerate.html section of the
manual for more instructions on how to use the accelerated styles
effectively.

:line

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:] none

[Default:] none
