"SPARTA WWW Site"_sws - "SPARTA Documentation"_sd - "SPARTA Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,http://sparta.sandia.gov)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

compute property/grid command :h3
compute property/grid/kk command :h3

[Syntax:]

compute ID property/grid group-ID input1 input2 ... :pre

ID is documented in "compute"_compute.html command :ulb,l
property/grid = style name of this compute command :l
group-ID = group ID for which grid cells to perform calculation on :l
input = one or more grid attributes :l
  possible attributes = id, proc, xlo, ylo, zlo, xhi, yhi, zhi, xc, yc, zc :pre

  id = integer form of grid cell ID
  proc = processor that owns grid cell
  xlo,ylo,zlo = coords of lower left corner of grid cell
  xhi,yhi,zhi = coords of lower left corner of grid cell
  xc,yc,zc = coords of center of grid cell
  vol = flow volume of grid cell (area in 2d) :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

compute 1 property/grid all id xc yc zc :pre

[Description:]

Define a computation that simply stores grid attributes for each grid
cell in a grid cell group.  This is useful so that the values can be
used by other "output commands"_Section_howto.html#howto_4 that take
computes as inputs.  See for example, the "compute
reduce"_compute_reduce.html, "fix ave/grid"_fix_ave_atom.html, and
"dump grid"_dump.html commands.

Only grid cells in the grid group specified by {group-ID} are included
in the calculation.  See the "group grid"_group.html command for info
on how grid cells can be assigned to grid groups.

The values are stored in a per-grid vector or array as discussed
below. 

{Id} is the grid cell ID.  In SPARTA each grid cell is assigned a
unique ID which represents its logical location within the
hierarchical grid.  This ID is stored as an integer such as 5774983,
but can also be decoded into a string such as 33-4-6, which makes it
easier to understand the grid hierarchy.  In this case it means the
grid cell is at the 3rd level of the hierarchy.  Its grandparent cell
was 33 at the 1st level, its parent was cell 4 (at level 2) within
cell 33, and the cell itself is cell 6 (at level 3) within cell 4
within cell 33.  If you specify {id}, the ID is printed directly as an
integer.  The ID in string format can be accessed by the "dump
grid"_dump.html command and its {idstr} argument.

{Proc} is the ID of the processor which currently owns the grid cell.

The {xlo}, {ylo}, {zlo} attributes are the coordinates of the
lower-left corner of the grid cell in the appropriate distance
"units"_units.html.  The {xhi}, {yhi}, {zhi} are the coordinates of
the upper-right corner of the grid cell.  The {xc}, {yc}, {zc}
attributes are the coordinates of the center point of the grid cell.
The {zlo}, {zhi}, {zc} attributes cannot be used for a 2d simulation.

The {vol} attribute is the flow volume of the grid cell (or area in
2d).  Flow volume is the portion of the grid cell that is accessible
to particles, i.e. outside any closed surface that may intersect the
cell.

:line

[Output info:]

This compute calculates a per-grid vector or per-grid array depending
on the number of input values.  If a single input is specified, a
per-grid vector is produced.  If two or more inputs are specified, a
per-grid array is produced where the number of columns = the number of
inputs.

This compute performs calculations for all flavors of child grid cells
in the simulation, which includes unsplit, cut, split, and sub cells.
See "Section 6.8"_Section_howto.html#howto_8 of the manual gives
details of how SPARTA defines child, unsplit, split, and sub cells.
The {id} and {xlo,ylo,zlo} and {xhi,yhi,zhi} values for a split cell
and its sub cells are all the same.  The {vol} of a cut cell is the
portion of the cell in the flow.  The {vol} of a split cell is the
same as if it were unsplit.  The {vol} of each sub cell within a split
cell is its portion of the flow volume.

Grid cells not in the specified {group-ID} will output zeroes for all
their values.

The vector or array can be accessed by any command that uses per-atom
values from a compute as input.  See "Section
4.4"_Section_howto.html#howto_4 for an overview of SPARTA output
options.

The vector or array values will be in whatever "units"_units.html the
corresponding attribute is in, e.g. distance units for xlo or xc.

:line

Styles with a {kk} suffix are functionally the same as the
corresponding style without the suffix.  They have been optimized to
run faster, depending on your available hardware, as discussed in the
"Accelerating SPARTA"_Section_accelerate.html section of the manual.
The accelerated styles take the same arguments and should produce the
same results, except for different random number, round-off and
precision issues.

These accelerated styles are part of the KOKKOS package. They are only
enabled if SPARTA was built with that package.  See the "Making
SPARTA"_Section_start.html#start_3 section for more info.

You can specify the accelerated styles explicitly in your input script
by including their suffix, or you can use the "-suffix command-line
switch"_Section_start.html#start_6 when you invoke SPARTA, or you can
use the "suffix"_suffix.html command in your input script.

See the "Accelerating SPARTA"_Section_accelerate.html section of the
manual for more instructions on how to use the accelerated styles
effectively.

:line

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:]

"dump grid"_dump.html, "compute reduce"_compute_reduce.html, "fix
ave/grid"_fix_ave_grid.html

[Default:] none
