"SPARTA WWW Site"_sws - "SPARTA Documentation"_sd - "SPARTA Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,https://sparta.github.io)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

compute tvib/grid command :h3

[Syntax:]

compute ID tvib/grid group-ID mix-ID keyword ... :pre

ID is documented in "compute"_compute.html command :ulb,l
tvib/grid = style name of this compute command :l
group-ID = group ID for which grid cells to perform calculation on :l
mix-ID = mixture ID to perform calculation on :l
zero or more keywords can follow :l
  possible keywords = mode
  mode = output one temperature per vibrational mode :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

compute 1 tvib/grid all species
compute 1 tvib/grid subset all
compute 1 tvib/grid all species mode :pre

[Description:]

Define a computation that calculates the vibrational temperature for
each grid cell in a grid cell group, based on the particles in the
cell.  How the vibrational temperature is computed is explained below.
The temperature is calculated separately for each group of species in
the specified mixture, as described in the Output section below.  See
the mixture command for how a set of species can be partitioned into
groups.

Only grid cells in the grid group specified by {group-ID} are included
in the calculations.  See the "group grid"_group.html command for info
on how grid cells can be assigned to grid groups.

The results of this compute can be used by different commands in
different ways.  The values for a single timestep can be output by the
"dump grid"_dump.html command.

The values over many sampling timesteps can be averaged by the "fix
ave/grid"_fix_ave_grid.html command.  It does its averaging as if the
particles in the cell at each sampling timestep were combined together
into one large set to compute the formulas below.  Note that this is a
different normalization than taking the values produced by the
formulas below for a single timestep, summing them over the sampling
timesteps, and then dividing by the number of sampling steps.

If the {mode} keyword is specified, then temperatures for each
vibrational mode of each polyatomic species are calculated and output
as explained below.  To use this option, the "collide_modify vibrate
discrete"_collide_modify.html option must be set, and the "fix
vibmode" command must be used to store info about individual
vibrational modes with each particle.

:line

The vibrational temperature in a grid cell for a group of particles
comprised of different species and (optionally) different vibrational
modes is defined as a weighted average as follows:

T_group = (T1*N1 + T2*N2 + ...) / (N1 + N2 + ...) :pre

What is summed over in the numerator and denominator depends on
several settings.

If the "collide_modify vibrate"_collide_modify.html setting is {no},
then no vibrational energy is assigned to particles.  All the
output temperatures will be 0.0.

If the "collide_modify vibrate"_collide_modify.html setting is
{smooth}, then the sums in the numerator and denominator are over the
different species in the group.  T1, T2, ... are the vibrational
temperatures of each species.  N1, N2, ... are the counts of particles
of each species.

The vibrational temperature Tsp for particles of a single species is
defined as follows:

Ibar = Sum_i (e_vib_i) / (N kB Theta)
Tsp = Theta / ln(1 + 1/Ibar)) :pre

where e_vib is the continuous (smooth) vibrational energy of a single
particle I, N is the total # of particles of that species, and {kB} is
the Boltzmann factor.  Theta is the characteristic vibrational
temperature for the species, as defined in the file read by the
"species"_species.html command.

If the "collide_modify vibrate"_collide_modify.html setting is
{discrete}, but no species has a vibrational DOF setting that implies
multiple vibrational modes (vibdof = 4,6,8), then the calulation of
vibrational temeperatures is the same as for "collide_modify vibrate
smooth"_collide_modify.html.  See the "species"_species.html command
and its description of the per-species "vibdof" setting in the species
file.

If the "collide_modify vibrate"_collide_modify.html setting is
{discrete}, and one or more species have vibrational DOF settings that
imply multiple vibrational modes (vibdof = 4,6,8), as defined by the
"species"_species.html command, then the sums in the numerator and
denominator are over the different species in the group and the modes
for each species.  For example if species CO2 has vibdof=6, then it
has 3 modes.  Three terms in the numerator and demoninator are
included when CO2 is a species in the group.

The vibrational temperature Tsp_m for particles of a single species
and single mode M is defined as follows:

Ibar_m = Sum_i (level_im) / (N)
Tsp_m = Theta_m / ln(1 + 1/Ibar_m)) :pre

where level_im is the integer level for mode M of a single particle I,
and N is the total # of particles of that species.  Theta_m is the
characteristic vibrational temperature for the species and its mode M,
as defined in the vibfile read by the "species"_species.html command.

Finally, if the {mode} keyword is used, then the output of this
compute is not Ngroup vibrational temperatures, but rather
Ngroup*Nmode vibrational temperatures, where Nmode is the maximum # of
vibrational modes associated with any species in the system (not just
in the mixture).  Thus the sums in the numerator and denominator are
over the different species in the group but for only a single modes of
each of those species.  If the species does not define that mode, then
its contribution is zero.  For example if species CO2 has vibdof=6,
then it has 3 modes.  For the group it is in, it will contribute to 3
output temperature values, one for mode 1, another for mode 2, another
for mode 3.

The vibrational temperature Tsp_m for particles of a single species
and single mode M is calculated the same as explained above.

:line

[Output info:]

This compute calculates a per-grid array.  If the {mode} keyword is
not specified, the number of columns is equal to the number of groups
in the specified mixture.  If is is specified, the number of columns
is equal to the number of groups in the specified mixture times the
maximum number of vibrational modes defined for any species in the
system (not just in the mixture).  The ordering of the columns is as
follows: T11, T12, T13, T21, T22, T23, T31, ... TN1, TN2, TN3.  Where
the first index is the group from 1 to N, and the second index is the
vibrational mode (1 to 3 in this example).

This compute performs calculations for all flavors of child grid cells
in the simulation, which includes unsplit, cut, split, and sub cells.
See "Section 4.8"_Section_howto.html#howto_8 of the manual gives
details of how SPARTA defines child, unsplit, split, and sub cells.
Note that cells inside closed surfaces contain no particles.  These
could be unsplit or cut cells (if they have zero flow volume).  Both
of these kinds of cells will compute a zero result for all their
values.  Likewise, split cells store no particles and will produce a
zero result.  This is because their sub-cells actually contain the
particles that are geometrically inside the split cell.

Grid cells not in the specified {group-ID} will output zeroes for all
their values.

The array can be accessed by any command that uses per-grid values
from a compute as input.  See "Section 4.4"_Section_howto.html#howto_4
for an overview of SPARTA output options.

The per-grid array values will be in temperature "units"_units.html.

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:]

"compute grid"_compute_grid.html

[Default:] none
