"SPARTA WWW Site"_sws - "SPARTA Documentation"_sd - "SPARTA Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,https://sparta.github.io)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

fix field/particle command :h3

[Syntax:]

fix ID field/particle axvar ayvar azvar :pre

ID is documented in "fix"_fix.html command
field/particle = style name of this fix command
axvar,ayvar,azvar = names of particle-style variables for acceleration components:ul

[Examples:]

fix 1 field/particle gradBx gradBy NULL :pre

[Description:]

Specify the formulas used to calculate the acceleration effect of an
external field on particle motion.  The ID of this fix can be used by
the "global field particle"_global.html command which applies the
field when particles are advected during a simulation run.  This is
done by invoking a method in this fix every timestep, which evaluates
the specified particle-style variables.

Each of the {axvar}, {ayvar}, and {azvar} arguments is the name of a
particle-style variable.  The variables should compute the x,y,z
components of acceleration applied to each particle by the field.  Any
of the three variables can be specified as NULL, which means there is
no acceleration in that dimension.

Each timestep when a particle is advected the acceleration vector (a)
acts as a perturbation on straight-line motion which affects both the
end-of-timestep position (x) and velocity (v) vectors of the particle:

xnew = x + dt*v + 0.5*a*dt^2
vnew = v + dt*a :pre

Note that the formulas encoded by the {axvar}, {ayvar}, and {azvar}
variables should produce values that are in units of acceleration
(distance/time^2, see the "units"_units.html command), not force.  And
they should not include the timestep (dt) value in the formulas above.
That is applied by SPARTA during advection.

See the "variable"_variable.html doc page for a description of the
formula syntax allowed for particle-style variables.  They can include
the particle position, thus enabling a spatially-dependent field.
They can include the current timestep and timestep size (dt) to enable
a time-dependent field.  And they can include properties of the
particle, such as its mass or magnetic moment.

:line

Note that the "global field"_global.html command provides three
alternatives for specifying an external field:

global field constant ...     # field is constant in space and time
global field particle ...     # field is applied on a per particle basis
global field grid ...         # field is applied on a per grid cell basis :pre

This fix is only used for per-particle fields.  It should only be used
for fields which vary spatially or in time; otherwise use the constant
option which will be much more efficient.  The use of per-particle
variables allows the field to vary spatially as a function of particle
position.  It also allows the field to vary in time by having the
variables use the current timestep.  The field can also depend on
particle attributes, such as its mass and magnetic moment (for a B
field).

Note that use of the "global field particle"_global.html command with
this fix will evaluate the specified particle-style variables every
timestep on all particles.  Thus a simulation will typically run
several times slower than it would without the external field.

The "fix field/grid"_fix_field_grid.html command is an alternative
which should run faster but be more approximate.  When used with the
"global field grid"_global.html command, the grid-style variables it
uses are only invoked once as a pre-calculation (for static fields) or
once every N timesteps (for time-varying fields).  And the field
calculation is done for each grid cell, not for each particle.  The
trade-off is that the fields it calculates are based on the grid cell
center pint, and thus are not as accurate as the calucations performed
by this fix.

[Restart, output info:]

No information about this fix is written to "binary restart
files"_restart.html.

This fix stores a per-particle array of values which can be accessed
by various output commands on any timestep, e.g. by the "dump
particle"_dump.html command.  The values are those produced by
evaluating the particle-style variables.  The number of rows in the
array is the number of particles this processor owns.  The number of
columns in the array is the number of non-NULL variables specified.

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:]

"fix field/grid"_fix_field_grid.html, "global field"_global.html

[Default:] none
