"SPARTA WWW Site"_sws - "SPARTA Documentation"_sd - "SPARTA Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,http://sparta.sandia.gov)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

fix field/grid command :h3

[Syntax:]

fix ID field/grid axvar ayvar azvar :pre

ID is documented in "fix"_fix.html command
field/grid = style name of this fix command
axvar,ayvar,azvar = names of grid-style variables for acceleration components:ul

[Examples:]

fix 1 field/grid gradBx gradBy NULL :pre

[Description:]

Specify the formulas used to calculate the acceleration effect of an
external field on particle motion.  The ID of this fix can be used by
the "global field grid"_global.html command which applies the field
when particles are advected during a simulation run.  This is done by
invoking a method in this fix, which evaluates the specified
grid-style variables.

Each of the {axvar}, {ayvar}, and {azvar} arguments is the name of a
grid-style variable.  The variables should compute the x,y,z
components of acceleration applied at the center point of each grid
cell in the simulation.  Any of the three variables can be specified
as NULL, which means there is no acceleration in that dimension.

Each timestep when a particle is advected the acceleration vector (a)
for the grid cell it is in acts as a perturbation on straight-line
motion which affects both the end-of-timestep position (x) and
velocity (v) vectors of the particle:

xnew = x + dt*v + 0.5*a*dt^2
vnew = v + dt*a :pre

Note that the formulas encoded by the {axvar}, {ayvar}, and {azvar}
variables should produce values that are in units of acceleration
(distance/time^2, see the "units"_units.html command), not force.  And
they should not include the timestep (dt) value in the formulas above.
That is applied by SPARTA during advection.

See the "variable"_variable.html doc page for a description of the
formula syntax allowed for grid-style variables.  They can include
references to the grid vectors xc, yc, and zc for the grid cell center
point.  Using these values in a formula can enable a
spatially-dependent field.  The formulas can also include the current
timestep and timestep size (dt) to enable a time-dependent field.

NOTE still need to figure this out: And they can include properties of
the particle, such as its mass or magnetic moment.

:line

Note that the "global field"_global.html command provides three
alternatives for specifying an external field:

global field constant ...     # field is constant in space and time
global field particle ...     # field is applied on a per particle basis
global field grid ...         # field is applied on a per grid cell basis :pre

This fix is only used for per-grid fields.  It should only be used for
fields which vary spatially or in time; otherwise use the constant
option which will be much more efficient.  The use of per-grid
variables allows the field to vary spatially as a function of the grid
cell center point. It also allows the field to vary in time by having
the variables use the current timestep.  

NOTE still need to figure out how to do this: The field can also
depend on particle attributes, such as its mass and magnetic moment
(for a B field).

Note that use of the "global field grid"_global.html command with this
fix will evaluate the specified grid-style variables as often as
requested.  For a field that has no time-ependence, you can specificy
it only be evaluated once at the beginning of a run.  For a field that
is time-dependent you can choose how often to recompute the field,
depending on how fast it varies.

The "fix field/particle"_fix_field_particle.html command is an
alternative which will typically run much slower, but be more
accurate.  When used with the "global field particle"_global.html
command, the particle-style variables it uses are invoked every
timestep using current particle positions.  And the field calculation
is done for each grid particle, not for each grid cell.  The trade-off
is that the fields it calculates for each particle is more accurate,
but the simulation will typically run several times slower than it
would with this fix.

[Restart, output info:]

No information about this fix is written to "binary restart
files"_restart.html.

This fix stores a per-grid cell array of values which can be accessed
by various output commands on any timestep, e.g. by the "dump
grid"_dump.html command.  The values are those produced by evaluating
the grid-style variables.  The number of rows in the array is the
number of grid cells this processor owns.  The number of columns in
the array is the number of non-NULL variables specified.

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:]

"fix field/particle"_fix_field_particle.html, "global
field"_global.html

[Default:] none
