"SPARTA WWW Site"_sws - "SPARTA Documentation"_sd - "SPARTA Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,http://sparta.sandia.gov)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

fix emit/face command :h3
fix emit/face/kk command :h3

[Syntax:]

fix ID emit/face mix-ID face1 face2 ... keyword value(s) ... :pre

ID is documented in "fix"_fix.html command :ulb,l
emit/face = style name of this fix command :l
mix-ID = ID of mixture to use when creating particles :l
face1,face2,... = one or more of {all} or {xlo} or {xhi} or {ylo} or {yhi} or {zlo} or {zhi} :l
zero or more keyword/value(s) pairs may be appended :l
keyword = {n} or {nevery} or {perspecies} or {region} or {subsonic} or {twopass} :l
  {n} value = Np = number of particles to create
  {nevery} value = Nstep = add particles every this many timesteps
  {perspecies} value = {yes} or {no}
  {region} value = region-ID 
  {subsonic} values = Psub Tsub
    Psub = pressure setting at inflow boundary (pressure units)
    Tsub = temperature setting at inflow boundary, can be NULL (temperature units)
  {twopass} values = none :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

fix in emit/face air all
fix in emit/face mymix xlo yhi n 1000 nevery 10 region circle
fix in emit/face air xlo subsonic 0.1 300
fix in emit/face air xhi subsonic 0.05 NULL twopass :pre

[Description:]

Emit particles from one or more faces of the simulation box,
continuously during a simulation.  If invoked every timestep, this fix
creates a continuous influx of particles thru the face(s).

The properties of the added particles are determined by the mixture
with ID {mix-ID}.  This sets the number and species of added
particles, as well as their streaming velocity, thermal temperature,
and internal energy modes.  The details are explained below.

One or more faces of the simulation box can be specified via the
{face1}, {face2}, etc arguments.  The 6 possible faces can be
specified as {xlo}, {xhi}, {ylo}, {yhi}, {zlo}, or {zhi}.  Specifying
{all} is the same as specifying all 6 individual faces.

On each insertion timestep, each grid cell with one or more of its
faces touching a specified boundary {face} performs the following
computations to add particles.  The particles are added at the
beginning of the SPARTA timestep.

The molecular flux across a grid cell face per unit time is given by
equation 4.22 of "(Bird94)"_#Bird94.  The number of particles {M} to
insert on a particular grid cell face is based on this flux and
additional global, flow, and cell face properties:

global property: {fnum} ratio as specified by the "global"_global.html" command
flow properties: number density, streaming velocity, and thermal temperature
cell face properties: area of face and its orientation relative to the streaming velocity :ul

The flow properties are defined for the specified mixture via the
"mixture"_mixture.html command.

If {M} has a fractional value, e.g. 12.5, then 12 particles are added,
and a 13th depending on the value of a random number.  Each particle
is added at a random location on the grid cell face.  The particle
species is chosen randomly in accord with the {frac} settings of the
collection of species in the mixture, as set by the
"mixture"_mixture.html command.

IMPORTANT NOTE: The preceeding calculation is actually done using face
areas associated with {weighted} cell volumes.  Grid cells can be
weighted using the "global weight"_global.html command.

The velocity of the particle is set to the sum of the streaming
velocity and a thermal velocity sampled from the thermal temperature.
The internal energy modes of the particle are determined by the {trot}
and {tvib} settings of the mixture and the {rotate} and {vibrate}
options of the "collide_modify"_collide_modify.html command.  Note
that if the "collide"_collide.html command has not been specified
(free molecular flow), then no rotational or vibrational energy will
be assigned to created particles.

If the final particle velocity is not directed "into" the grid cell,
then the velocity sampling procedure is repeated until it is.  This
insures that all added particles enter the simulation domain, as
desired.

The first timestep that added particles are advected, they move for a
random fraction of the timestep.  This insures a continuous flow field
of particles entering the simulation box.

:line

The {n} keyword can alter how many particles are added, which can be
useful for debugging purposes.  If {Np} is set to 0, then the number
of added particles is a function of {fnum}, {nrho}, and other mixture
settings, as described above.  If {Np} is set to a value > 0, then the
{fnum} and {nrho} settings are ignored, and exactly {Np} particles are
added on each insertion timestep.  This is done by dividing {Np} by
the total number of grid cells that are adjacent to the specified box
faces and adding an equal number of particles per grid cell.

The {nevery} keyword determines how often particles are added.  If
{Nstep} > 1, this may give a non-continuous, clumpy distribution in
the inlet flow field.

The {perspecies} keyword determines how the species of each added
particle is randomly determined.  This has an effect on the
statistical properties of added particles.

If {perspecies} is set to {yes}, then a target insertion number {M} in
a grid cell is calculated for each species, which is a function of the
relative number fraction of the species, as set by the "mixture
nfrac"_mixture.html command.  If {M} has a fractional value,
e.g. 12.5, then 12 particles of that species will always be added, and
a 13th depending on the value of a random number.

If {perspecies} is set to {no}, then a single target insertion number
{M} in a grid cell is calculated for all the species.  Each time a
particle is added, a random number is used to choose the species of
the particle, based on the relative number fractions of all the
species in the mixture.  As before, if {M} has a fractional value,
e.g. 12.5, then 12 particles will always be added, and a 13th
depending on the value of a random number.

Here is a simple example that illustrates the difference between the
two options.  Assume a mixture with 2 species, each with a relative
number fraction of 0.5.  Assume a particular grid cell adds 10
particles from that mixture.  If {perspecies} is set to {yes}, then
exactly 5 particles of each species will be added on every timestep
insertions take place.  If {perspecies} is set to {no}, then exactly
10 particles will be added every time and on average there will be 5
particles of each of the two species.  But on one timestep it might be
6 of the first and 4 of the second.  On another timestep it might be 3
of the first and 7 of the second.

If the {region} keyword is used, then a particle will only added if
its position is within the specified {region-ID}.  This can be used to
only allow particle insertion on a subset of the boundary face.  Note
that the {side} option for the "region"_region.html command can be
used to define whether the inside or outside of the geometric region
is considered to be "in" the region.

IMPORTANT NOTE: If the {region} and {n} keywords are used together,
less than N particles may be added on an insertion timestep.  This is
because grid cells will be candidates for particle insertion, unless
they are entirely outside the bounding box that encloses the region.
Particles those grid cells attempt to add are included in the count
for N, even if some or all of the particle insertions are rejected due
to not being inside the region.

The {subsonic} keyword uses the method of Fang and Liou
"(Fang02)"_#Fang02 to determine the number of particles to insert in
each grid cell on the emitting face(s).  They used the method of
characteristics to calculate the mean properties of the incoming
molecular flux, so that the prescribed pressure condition is achieved.
These properties are then applied to calculate the molecular flux
across a grid cell face per unit time, as given by equation 4.22 of
"(Bird94)"_#Bird94.

This keyword allows specification of both the pressure and temperature
at the boundary or just the pressure (by specifying the temperature as
NULL).  If specified, the temperature must be > 0.0.  Currently,
instantaneous values for the density, temperature, and stream velocity
of particles in the cells adjacent to the boundary face(s) are
computed and used to determine the properties of inserted particles on
each timestep.

IMPORTANT NOTE: Caution must be exercised when using the subsonic
boundary condition without specifying an inlet temperature. In this
case the code tries to estimate the temperature of the flow from the
properties of the particles in the domain. If the domain contains few
particles per cell it may lead to spurious results.  This boundary
condition is meant more for an outlet than an inlet boundary
condition, and performs well in cases where the cells are adequately
populated.
 
IMPORTANT NOTE: When using this keyword, you should also use an
appropriate boundary collision or chemistry model via the
"boundary"_boundary.htmo or "bound_modify"_bound_modify.html or
"surf_collide"_surf_collide.html or "surf_react"_surf_react.html
commands, so that particles hitting the surface disappear as if they
were exiting the simulation domain.  That is necessary to produce the
correct subsonic conditions that the particle insertions due to this
command are trying to achieve.

The {twopass} keyword does not require a value.  If used, the
insertion procedure will loop over the insertion grid cells twice, the
same as the KOKKOS package version of this fix does, so that it can
reallocate memory efficiently, e.g. on a GPU.  If this keyword is used
the non-KOKKOS and KOKKOS version will generate exactly the same set
of particles, which makes debugging easier.  If the keyword is not
used, the non-KOKKOS and KOKKOS runs will use random numbers
differently and thus generate different particles, though they will be
statistically similar.

:line

[Restart, output info:]

No information about this fix is written to "binary restart
files"_restart.html.

This fix computes a global vector of length 2 which can be accessed by
various output commands.  The first element of the vector is the total
number of particles added on the most recent insertion step.  The
second element is the cummulative total number added since the
beginning of the run.  The 2nd value is initialized to zero each time
a run is performed.

:line

Styles with a {kk} suffix are functionally the same as the
corresponding style without the suffix.  They have been optimized to
run faster, depending on your available hardware, as discussed in the
"Accelerating SPARTA"_Section_accelerate.html section of the manual.
The accelerated styles take the same arguments and should produce the
same results, except for different random number, round-off and
precision issues.

These accelerated styles are part of the KOKKOS package. They are only
enabled if SPARTA was built with that package.  See the "Making
SPARTA"_Section_start.html#start_3 section for more info.

You can specify the accelerated styles explicitly in your input script
by including their suffix, or you can use the "-suffix command-line
switch"_Section_start.html#start_6 when you invoke SPARTA, or you can
use the "suffix"_suffix.html command in your input script.

See the "Accelerating SPARTA"_Section_accelerate.html section of the
manual for more instructions on how to use the accelerated styles
effectively.

:line

[Restrictions:]

Particles cannot be emitted from periodic faces of the simulation box.
Particles cannot be emitted from {z} faces of the simluation box for a
2d simulation.

A {n} setting of {Np} > 0 can only be used with a {perspecies} setting
of {no}.

A warning will be issued if a specified face has an inward normal in a
direction opposing the streaming velocity.  Particles will still be
emitted from that face, so long as a small fraction have a thermal
velocity large enough to overcome the outward streaming velocity, so
that their net velocity is inward.  The threshold for this is that a
thermal velocity 3 sigmas from the mean thermal velocity is large
enough to overcome the outward streaming velocity and produce a net
velocity into the simulation box.

[Related commands:]

"mixture"_mixture.html, "create_particles"_create_particles.html, "fix
emit/face/file"_fix_emit_face_file.html

[Default:]

The keyword defaults are n = 0, nevery = 1, perspecies = yes, region =
none, no subsonic settings, no twopass setting.

:line

:link(Bird94)
[(Bird94)] G. A. Bird, Molecular Gas Dynamics and the Direct
Simulation of Gas Flows, Clarendon Press, Oxford (1994).

:link(Fang02)
[(Fang02)] Y. Fang and W. W. Liou, Microfluid Flow Computations 
Using a Parallel DSMC Code, AIAA 2002-1057. (2002).
