"SPARTA WWW Site"_sws - "SPARTA Documentation"_sd - "SPARTA Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,http://sparta.sandia.gov)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

fix balance command :h3
fix balance/kk command :h3

[Syntax:]

fix ID balance Nfreq thresh bstyle args :pre

ID is documented in "fix"_fix.html command :ulb,l
balance = style name of this fix command :l
Nfreq = perform dynamic load balancing every this many steps :l
thresh = rebalance if imbalance factor is above this threshhold :l
bstyle = {random} or {proc} or {rcb} :l
  {random} args = none 
  {proc} args = none 
  {rcb} args = weight
    weight = {cell} or {part} or {time} :pre
zero or more keyword/value(s) pairs may be appended :l
keyword = {axes} or {flip} :l
  {axes} value = dims
    dims = string with any of "x", "y", or "z" characters in it
  {flip} value = yes or no :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

fix 1 balance 1000 1.1 rcb cell
fix 2 balance 10000 1.0 random :pre

[Description:]

This command dynamically adjusts the assignment of grid cells and
their particles to processors as a simulation runs, to attempt to
balance the computational cost (load) evenly across processors.  The
load balancing is "dynamic" in the sense that rebalancing is performed
periodically during the simulation. To perform "static" balancing,
before or between runs, see the "balance_grid"_balance_grid.html
command.

This command is useful to use during simulations where the spatial
distribution of particles varies with time, leading to load imbalance.

After grid cells have been assigned, they are migrated to new owning
processors, along with any particles they own or other per-cell
attributes stored by fixes.  The internal data structures within
SPARTA for grid cells and particles are re-initialized with the new
decomposition.

The details of how child cells are assigned to processors by the
various options of this command are described below.  The cells
assigned to each processor will either be "clumped" or "dispersed".

The {rcb} keyword will produce clumped assignments of child cells to
each processor.  This means each processor's cells will be
geometrically compact.  The {random} and {proc} keywords will produce
dispersed assignments of child cells to each processor.

IMPORTANT NOTE: See "Section 6.8"_Section_howto.html#howto_8 of the
manual for an explanation of clumped and dispersed grid cell
assignments and their relative performance trade-offs.

:line

Rebalancing is attempted by this command once every {Nfreq} timesteps,
but only if the current imbalance factor exceeds the specified
{thresh}.  This factor is defined as the maximum number of particles
owned by any processor, divided by the average number of particles per
processor.  Thus an imbalance factor of 1.0 is perfect balance.  For
10000 particles running on 10 processors, if the most heavily loaded
processor has 1200 particles, then the factor is 1.2, meaning there is
a 20% imbalance.  The {thresh} setting must be >= 1.0.

IMPORTANT NOTE: This command attempts to minimize the imbalance
factor, as defined above.  But computational cost is not strictly
proportional to particle count, depending on the
"collision"_collide.html and "chemistry"_react.html models being used.
Also, changing the assignment of grid cells and particles to
processors may lead to additional communication overheads, e.g.  when
migrating particles between processors.  Thus you should benchmark the
run times of your simulation to judge how often balancing should be
performed, and how aggressively to set the {thresh} value.

:line

The {random} keyword means that each grid cell will be assigned
randomly to one of the processors.  In this case every processor will
typically not be assigned exactly the same number of grid cells.

The {proc} keyword means that each processor will choose a random
processor to assign its first grid cell to.  It will then loop over
its grid cells and assign each to consecutive processors, wrapping
around the collection of processors if necessary.  In this case every
processor will typically not be assigned exactly the same number of
grid cells.

The {rcb} keyword uses a recurvise coordinate bisectioning (RCB)
algorithm to assign spatially-compact clumps of grid cells to
processors.  Each grid cell has a "weight" in this algorithm so that
each processor is assigned an equal total weight of grid cells, as
nearly as possible.

If the {weight} argument is specified as {cell}, then the weight for
each grid cell is 1.0, so that each processor will end up with an
equal number of grid cells.

If the {weight} argument is specified as {part}, than the weight for
each grid cell is the number of particles it currently owns, so that
each processor will end up with an equal number of particles.

If the {weight} argument is specified as {time}, then timers are used
to estimate the cost of each grid cell.  The cost from the timers is
given on a per processor basis, and then assigned to grid cells by
weighting by the relative number of particles in the grid cells. If no
timing data has yet been collected at the point in a script where this
command is issued, a {cell} style weight will be used instead of
{time}.  A small warmup run (for example 100 timesteps) can be used
before the balance command so that timer data is available. The timers
used for balancing tally time from the move, sort, collide, and modify
portions of each timestep.

If the {weight} argument is specified as {time}, then timers are used
to estimate the cost of each grid cell.  The cost from the timers is
given on a per processor basis, and then assigned to grid cells by
weighting by the relative number of particles in the grid cells. If no
timing data has yet been collected on a given timestep, a {cell} style
weight will be used instead of {time}.  The number of timesteps
{Nfreq} between balancing steps should be large enough to give eliable
timings.  For example, re-balancing every timestep will likely not
give accurate timings for small problems.  The timers used for
balancing tally time from the move, sort, collide, and modify
portions of each timestep.

Here is an example of an RCB partitioning for 24 processors, of a 2d
hierarchical grid with 5 levels, refined around a tilted ellipsoidal
surface object (outlined in pink).  This is for a {weight cell}
setting, yielding an equal number of grid cells per processor.  Each
processor is assigned a different color of grid cells.  (Note that
less colors than processors were used, so the disjoint yellow cells
actually belong to three different processors).  This is an example of
a clumped distribution where each processor's assigned cells can be
compactly bounded by a rectangle.  Click for a larger version of the
image.

:c,image(JPG/partition_small.jpg,JPG/partition.jpg)

:line

The optional keywords {axes} and {flip} only apply to the {rcb}
style.  Otherwise they are ignored.

The {axes} keyword allows limiting the partitioning created by the RCB
algorithm to a subset of dimensions.  The default is to allow cuts in
all dimension, e.g. x,y,z for 3d simulations.  The dims value is a
string with 1, 2, or 3 characters.  The characters must be one of "x",
"y", or "z".  They can be in any order and must be unique.  For
example, in 3d, a dims = xz would only partition the 3d grid only in
the x and z dimensions.

The {flip} keyword is useful for debugging.  If it is set to {yes}
then each time an RCB partitioning is done, the coordinates of grid
cells will (internally only) undergo a sign flip to insure that the
new owner of each grid cell is a different processor than the previous
owner, at least when more than a few processors are used.  This will
insure all particle and grid data moves to new processors, fully
exercising the rebalancing code.

:line

[Restart, output info:]

No information about this fix is written to "binary restart
files"_restart.html.

This fix computes a global scalar which is the imbalance factor after
the most recent rebalance and a global vector of length 2 with
additional information about the most recent rebalancing. The 2 values
in the vector are as follows:

1 = max # of particles per processor
2 = imbalance factor before the last rebalance was performed :ul

As explained above, the imbalance factor is the ratio of the maximum
number of particles on any processor to the average number of
particles per processor. For the {rcb} style's {time} option, the
imbalance factor after the most recent rebalance cannot be computed
and 0.0 is returned for the global scalar value.

:line

Styles with a {kk} suffix are functionally the same as the
corresponding style without the suffix.  They have been optimized to
run faster, depending on your available hardware, as discussed in the
"Accelerating SPARTA"_Section_accelerate.html section of the manual.
The accelerated styles take the same arguments and should produce the
same results, except for different random number, round-off and
precision issues.

These accelerated styles are part of the KOKKOS package. They are only
enabled if SPARTA was built with that package.  See the "Making
SPARTA"_Section_start.html#start_3 section for more info.

You can specify the accelerated styles explicitly in your input script
by including their suffix, or you can use the "-suffix command-line
switch"_Section_start.html#start_6 when you invoke SPARTA, or you can
use the "suffix"_suffix.html command in your input script.

See the "Accelerating SPARTA"_Section_accelerate.html section of the
manual for more instructions on how to use the accelerated styles
effectively.

:line

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:]

"create_grid"_create_grid.html, "balance_grid"_balance_grid.html

[Default:] none
