"SPARTA WWW Site"_sws - "SPARTA Documentation"_sd - "SPARTA Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,http://sparta.sandia.gov)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

fix ablate command :h3

[Syntax:]

fix ID ablate group-ID Nevery scale source maxrandom :pre

ID is documented in "fix"_fix.html command :ulb,l
ablate = style name of this fix command :l
group-ID = ID of group of grid cells that contain implicit surfaces :l
Nevery = perform ablation once every Nevery steps :l
scale = scale factor to convert source to grid corner point value decrement :l
source = computeID or fixID or random :l
  computeID = c_ID or c_ID\[n\] for a compute that calculates per grid cell values
  fixID = f_ID or f_ID\[n\] for a fix that calculates per grid cell values
  v_name = per-grid vector calculated by a grid-style variable with name
  random = perform a random decrement :pre
maxrandom = maximum per grid cell decrement as an integer (only specified if source = random) :l
:ule

[Examples:]

fix 1 ablate surfcells 0 0.0 random 10
fix 1 ablate surfcells 1000 10.0 c_tally :pre

[Description:]

Perform ablation once every Nevery steps on a set of grid cell corner
points to induce new implicit surface elements in those grid cells.
This command is also used as an argument to the
"read_isurf"_read_isurf.html command so that the grid corner point
values it reads from a file can be assigned to and stored by each grid
cell.

Here are simulation snapshots of 2d and 3d implicit surface models
through which particles flow.  Click on any image for a larger image.
The 1st and 3rd images are the initial states of the porous media.
The 2nd and 4th images are snapshots midway through an ablation
simulation.  In the 2d case, the colorings are by processor for
sub-domains each owns.  Particles flow from left to right.  The
implicit triangles for the 3d case were created via Marching Cubes
(discussed on the "read_isurf"_read_isurf.html command doc page) from
a tomographic image of a sample of NASA FiberForm (TM) material, used
as a heat shield material on spacecraft.  Particles flow from top to
bottom.

:c,image(JPG/porous2d_initial_small.png,JPG/porous2d_initial.png),image(JPG/porous2d_ablated_small.png,JPG/porous2d_ablated.png),image(JPG/porous3d_initial_small.png,JPG/porous3d_initial.png),image(JPG/porous3d_ablated_small.png,JPG/porous3d_ablated.png)

The specified {group-ID} must be the name of a grid cell group, as
defined by the "group grid"_group.html command, which contains a set
of grid cells, all of which are the same size, and which comprise a
contiguous 3d array.  It must be the same as group-ID used with the
"read_isurf"_read_isurf.html command, which specifies its {Nx} by {Ny}
by {Nz} extent.  See the "read_isurf"_read_isurf.html command for more
details.  This command reads the initial values for grid cell corner
points, which are stored by this fix.

The specfied {Nevery} determines how often an ablation operation is
performed.  If {Nevery} = 0, ablation is never performed.  The grid
cell corner point values and the surface elements they induce will
remain static for the duration of subsequent simulations.

The specified {scale} is a pre-factor on the specified {source} of
ablation strength.  It converts the per grid cell numeric quantities
produced by the {source} (which may have associated units) to a
unitless decrement value for the grid cell corner points, which range
from 0 to 255 inclusive.  A value of 255 represents solid material and
a value of 0 is void (flow volume for particles).  Values in between
represent partially ablated material.

The {source} can be specified as a per grid cell quantity calculated
by a compute, fix, or variable.  For example, "compute
isurf/grid"_compute_isurf_grid.html can tally the number of collisions
of particles with the surfaces in each grid cell or the amount of
energy transferred to the surface by the collisions.  Or "compute
react/isurf/grid"_compute_isurf_grid.html can tally the number of
reactions that remove a species from the surface.

An example of a fix which be used as a {source} is "fix
ave/grid"_fix_ave_grid.html which could use either of those per grid
cell computes as input.  It could thus accumulate and time average the
same quantities over many timesteps.  In that case the {scale} factor
should account for applying a time-averaged quantity at an interval of
{N} steps.  

Finally, a grid-style variable can be be used as a {source}.  This
could perform a calculation on other per grid cell quantities.  For
example, it could add and subtract columns from the compute or fix
just mentioned to tally adsorption versus desorption reactions and
thus infer net mass removed from the surface.

For debugging purposes, the {source} can also be specified as {random}
with an additional integer {maxrandom} value also specified.  In this
case, the {scale} factor should be floating point value between 0.0
and 1.0.  Each time ablation is performed, two random numbers are
generated for each grid cell.  The first is a random value between 0.0
and 1.0.  The second is a random integer between 1 and maxrandom.  If
the first random # < {scale}, then the second random integer is the
decrement value for the cell.  Thus {scale} is effectively the
fraction of grid cells whose corner point values are decremented.

:line

Here is an example of commands that will couple ablation to surface
reaction statistics to modulate ablation of a set of implicit
surfaces.  These lines are taken from the
examples/ablation/in.ablation.3d.reactions input script:

surf_collide	    1 diffuse 300.0 1.0
surf_react	    2 prob air.surf :pre

compute             10 react/isurf/grid all 2
fix                 10 ave/grid all 1 100 100 c_10[*]
dump                10 grid all 100 tmp.grid id c_10[1] :pre

global              surfs implicit
fix                 ablate ablate all 100 2.0 c_10[1]   # could be f_10
read_isurf          all 20 20 20 binary.21x21x21 99.5 ablate :pre

surf_modify         all collide 1 react 2 :pre

The order of these commands matter, so here is the explanation.

The "surf_modify"_surf_modify.html command must come after the
"read_isurf"_read_isurf.html command, because surfaces must exist
before assigning collision and reaction models to them.  The "fix
ablate"_fix_ablate.html command must come before the
"read_isurf"_read_isurf.html command, since it uses the ID of the "fix
ablate"_fix_ablate command as an argument to create implicit surfaces.
The "fix ablate"_fix_ablate.html command takes a compute or fix as an
argument, in this case the ID of the "compute
react/isurf/grid"_compute_react_isurf_grid.html command.  This is to
specify what calculation drives the ablation.  In this case, it is the
"compute react/isurf/grid"_compute_react_isurf_grid.html command (or
could be the "fix ave/grid"_fix_ave_grid.html command) which tallies
counts of surface reactions for implicit triangles in each grid cell.
The "compute react/isurf/grid"_compute react/isurf/grid command
requires the ID of a surface reaction model, so that it knows the list
of possible reactions to tally.  In this case the reaction is set by
the "surf_react"_surf_react.html command, which must therefore comes
near the beginning of this list of commands.

:line

As explained on the "read_isurf"_read_isurf.html doc page, the
marching cubes (3d) or marching squares (2d) algorithm is used to
convert a set of grid corner point values to a set of implicit
triangles in each grid cell which represent the current surface of
porous material which is undergoing dynamic ablation.  This uses a
threshold value, defined by the "read_isurf"_read_isurf.html command,
to set the boundary between solid material and void.

The ablation operation decrements the corner point values of each grid
cell containing porous material.  The marching cubes or squares
algorithm is re-invoked on the new corner point values to create a new
set of implicit surfaces, which effectively recess due to the
decrement produced byt the ablative {source} factor.

The manner in which the per-grid source decrement value is applied to
the grid corner points is as follows.  Note that each grid cell has 4
(2d) or 8 (3d) corner point values.  Except at the boundary of the 2d
of 3d array of grid cells containing porous materials, each corner
point is similarly shared by 4 (2d) or 8 (3d) grid cells.

Within each grid cell, the decrement value is subtracted from the
smallest corner point value.  Except that a corner point value cannot
become smaller than 0.0.  If this would occur, only a portion of the
decrement is used to set the corner point to 0.0; the remainder is
applid to the next smallest corner point value.  And so forth on
successive corner points until all of the decrement is used.

The amount of decrement applied to each corner point is next shared
between all the grid cells (4 or 8) sharing each corner point value.
The sum of those decrements is subtracted from the corner point,
except that it's final value is set no smaller than 0.0.  All the
copies of each corner point value are now identical.

Finally, no corner point value can be nearly equal to the marching
cubes/squares threshold value, else line segments or triangles of zero
or epsilon size will result.  So corner points with values X where
thresh-epsilon < X < thresh+epsilon are reset to thresh-epsilon.
Thresh is defined by the "read_isurf"_read_isurf.html command.
Epsilon is set to 1.0e-4 in src/fix_ablate.cpp.  Note that this is on
the scale of corner point values from 0 to 255.

:line

[Restart, output info:]

No information about this fix is written to "binary restart
files"_restart.html.

This fix computes a global scalar and a global vector of length 2.
The global scalar is the current sum of unique corner point values
across the entire grid (not counting duplicate values).  This sum
assumes that corner point values are 0.0 on the boundary of the 2d or
3d array of grid cells containing implicit surface elements.

The 2 vector values are the (1) sum of decrement values for each grid
cell in the most recent ablation operation, and (2) the # of particles
deleted during the most recent ablation operation that ended up
"inside" the newly ablated surface.  The latter quantity should be 0.
A non-zero value indicates a corner case in the marching cubes or
marching squares algorithm the developers still need to address.

These values can be accessed by any command that uses global values
from a fix as input.  See "Section 6.4"_Section_howto.html#howto_4 for
an overview of SPARTA output options.

The scalar and vector values are unitless.

[Restrictions:]

This fix can only be used in simulations that define implicit surfaces.

[Related commands:]

"read isurf"_read_isurf.html

[Default:] none
