"SPARTA WWW Site"_sws - "SPARTA Documentation"_sd - "SPARTA Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,https://sparta.github.io)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

global command :h3

[Syntax:]

global keyword values ... :pre

one or more keyword/value pairs :ulb,l
keyword = {fnum} or {nrho} or {vstream} or {temp} or {field} or {surfs} or {surfgrid} or {surfmax} or {splitmax} or {surftally} or {gridcut} or {comm/sort} or {comm/style} or {weight} or {particle/reorder} or {mem/limit} :l
  {fnum} value = ratio
    ratio = Fnum ratio of physical particles to simulation particles
  {nrho} value = density
    density = number density of background gas (# per length^3 units)
  {vstream} values = Vx Vy Vz
    Vx,Vy,Vz = streaming velocity of background gas (velocity units)
  {temp} values = thermal
    thermal = temperature of background gas (temperature units)
  {field} values = fstyle args
    fstyle = {none} or {constant} or {variable} or {grid}
      {field} arg = none
      {constant} args = mag ex ey ez
        mag = magnitude of field acceleration (acceleration units)
        ex,ey,ez = direction vector which the field acts along
      {particle} arg = fixID
        fixID = ID of fix that computes per particle field components
      {grid} args = fixID Nfreq
        fixID = ID of fix that computes per grid cell field components
        Nfreq = update field values every this many timesteps
  {surfs} value = explicit or explicit/distributed or implicit
    explicit = surfs defined in read_surf file, each proc owns copy of all surfs
    explicit/distributed = surfs defined in read_surf file, each proc owns
                           only the surfs for its owned_ghost grid cells
    implicit = surfs defined in read_isurf file, each proc owns
                           only the surfs for its owned+ghost grid cells
  {surfgrid} value = {percell} or {persurf} or {auto}
    percell = loop over my cells and check every surf
    persurf = loop over my surfs and cells they overlap
    auto = choose percell or persurf based on surface element and proc count
  {surfmax} value = Nsurf
    Nsurf = max # of surface elements allowed in single grid cell
  {splitmax} value = Nsplit
    Nsplit = max # of sub-cells one grid cell can be split into by surface elements
  {surftally} value = {reduce} or {rvous} or {auto}
    reduce = tally surf collision info via MPI_Allreduce operations
    rvous = tally via a rendezvous algorithm
    auto = choose reduce or rvous based on surface element and proc count
  {gridcut} value = cutoff
    cutoff = acquire ghost cells up to this far away (distance units)
  {comm/sort} value = yes or no
    yes/no = sort incoming messages by proc ID if yes, else no sort
  {comm/style} value = neigh or all
    neigh = setup particle comm with subset of near-neighbor processor
    all = allow particle comm with potentially any processor
  {weight} value = {wstyle} {mode}
    wstyle = {cell}
    mode = {none} or {volume} or {radius} or {radius/only}
  {particle/reorder} value = {nsteps}
    nsteps = reorder the particles every this many timesteps
  {mem/limit} value = {grid} or bytes
    grid = limit extra memory for load-balancing, particle reordering, and restart file read/write to grid cell memory
    bytes = limit extra particle memory to this amount (in MBytes)
  {optmove} value = yes or no
    yes/no = use optimized particle move if yes, else use regular move :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

global fnum 1.0e20
global vstream 100.0 0 0 fnum 5.0e18
global temp 1000
global weight cell radius 
global mem/limit 100 
global field constant 9.8 0 0 1 :pre

[Description:]

Define global properties of the system.

The {fnum} keyword sets the ratio of real, physical molecules to
simulation particles.  E.g. a value of 1.0e20 means that one particle
in the simulation represents 1.0e20 molecules of the particle species.

The {nrho} keyword sets the number density of the background gas.  For
3d simulations the units are #/volume.  For 2d, the units are
effectively #/area since the z dimension is treated as having a length
of 1.0.

Assuming your simulation is populated by particles from the background
gas, the {fnum} and {nrho} settings can determine how many particles
will be present in your simulation, when using the
"create_particles"_create_particles.html or "fix
emit"_fix_emit_face.html command variants.

The {vstream} keyword sets the streaming velocity of the background
gas.

The {temp} keyword sets the thermal temperature of the background gas.
This is a Gaussian velocity distribution superposed on top of the
streaming velocity.

The {field} keyword adds an additional external field term which can
included in the motion of particles.  The {fstyle} argument can be
{none} or {constant}, {particle}, or {grid}.  Note that only one of
these can be set by the global command.  If the {field} keyword is
specified multiple times, only the last one has an effect.

The {none} setting turns off any external field setting previously
specified.  It is the default.

The {constant} setting is for a field that has no spatial or time
dependence; the same field vector acts on all particles.  Gravity is
an example of a constant external field.  The {mag} arguement sets the
magnitude of the field.  The (ex,ey,ez) components specify the
direction the field acts in.  The components do not need to be a unit
vector; the code converts them into a unit vector internally.  Note
that a z-component cannot be used for 2d simulations.

The {particle} setting is for a field that is computed on a per
particle basis, depending on the position or other attributes of each
particle.  A spatially- or time-dependent magnetic field, acting on
the magnetic moment of each particle, is an example of a variable
external field.  The fixID argument is the ID of a fix which computes
the components of the field vector for each particle.  These may alter
both the position and velocity of each particle when it is advected
each timestep.  

See the doc page for the "fix field/particle"_fix_field_particle.html
command for the only current fix in SPARTA which is compatible with
the {particle} setting.

The {grid} setting is for a field that is computed on a per grid cell
basis and applied to all the particles in the grid cell.  A spatially-
or time-dependent magnetic field which is coarsened to act at the
resolution of grid cells is an example of a per grid cell external
field.  The fixID argument is the ID of a fix which computes the
components of the field vector for each grid cell.  These may alter
both the position and velocity or particles in the grid cell when they
are advected each timestep.  The Nfreq argument specifies how often to
re-compute the per grid cell field vectors.  For a field that has no
time dependence you should set Nfreq to zero; the field will only be
computed once at the beginning of each simulation run.  For a field
with time-dependence you can choose how often to recompute the field,
depending on how fast it varies.

See the doc page for the "fix field/grid"_fix_field_grid.html command
for the only current fix in SPARTA which is compatible with the
{grid} setting.

Note that there is a tradeoff between the {particle} and {grid}
options.  For the {particle} option the field must be computed every
timestep for all particles; the field values are accurately computed
at precisely each particle's position but it is an expensive
operation.  For the {grid} option the field is only computed once at
the beginning of a run or once every Nfreq timesteps.  Even if it is
computed every timestep, the number of grid cells is typically much
smaller than the number of particles.  However the accuracy of the
field applied to each particle is more approximate than for the
{particle} option.  This is because the field applied to each particle
is the value it has at the center of the particle's grid cell.

:line

The {surfs} keyword determines what kind of surface elements SPARTA
uses and how they are distributed across processors.  Possible values
are {explicit}, {explicit/distributed}, and {implicit}.  See the
"Howto 6.13"_Section_howto.html#howto_13 section of the manual for an
explantion of explicit versus implicit surfaces.  The distributed
option can be important for models with huge numbers of surface
elements.  Each processor stores copies of only the surfaces that
overlap grid cells it owns or has ghost copies of.  Implicit surfaces
are always distributed.  The {explicit} setting is the default and
means each processor stores a copy of all the defined surface
elements.  Note that a surface element requires about 100 bytes of
storage, so storing a million on a single processor requires about 100
MBytes.
  
The {surfgrid} keyword determines what algorithm is used to enumerate
the overlaps (intersections) between grid cells and surface elements
(lines in 2d, triangles in 3d).  The possible settings are {percell},
{persurf}, and {auto}.  The {auto} setting is the default and will
choose between a {percell} or {persurf} algorithm based on the number
of surface elements and processor count.  If there are more processors
than surface elements, the {percell} algorithm is used.  Otherwise the
{persurf} algorithm is used.  The {percell} algorithm loops over the
subset of grid cells each processor owns.  All the surface elements
are tested for overlap with each owned grid cell.  The {persurf}
algorithm loops over a 1/P fraction of surface elements on each
processor.  The bounding box around each surface is used to find all
grid cells it possibly overlaps.  For large numbers of surface
elements or processors, the {persurf} algorithm is generally faster.

The {surfmax} keyword determines the maximum number of surface
elements (lines in 2d, triangles in 3d) that can overlap a single grid
cell.  The default is 100, which should be large enough for any
simulation, unless you define very coarse grid cells relative to the
size of surface elements they contain.

The {splitmax} keyword determines the maximum number of sub-cells a
single grid cell can be split into as a result of its intersection
with multiple surface elements (lines in 2d, triangles in 3d).  The
default is 10, which should be large enough for any simulation, unless
you embed a complex-shaped surface object into one or a very few grid
cells.

The {surftally} keyword determines what algorithm is used to combine
tallies of surface collisions across processors that own portions of
the same surface element.  The possible settings are {reduce},
{rvous}, and {auto}.  The {auto} setting is the default and will
choose between a {reduce} or {rvous} algorithm based on the number of
surface elements and processor count.  If there are more processors
than surface elements, the {reduce} algorithm is used.  Otherwise the
{rvous} algorithm is used.  The {reduce} algorithm is suitable for
relatively small surface elememt counts.  It creates a copy of a
vector or array of length the global number of surface elements.  Each
processor sums its tally contributions into the vector or array.  An
MPI_Allreduce() is performed to sum it across all processors.  Each
processor than extracts values for the N/P surfaces it owns.  The
{rvous} algorithm is faster for large surface element counts.  A
rendezvous style of communication is performed where every processor
sends its tally contributions directly to the processor which owns the
element as one of its N/P elements.

:line

The {gridcut} keyword determines the cutoff distance at which ghost
grid cells will be stored by each processor.  Assuming the processor
owns a compact clump of grid cells (see below), it will also store
ghost cell information from nearby grid cells, up to this distance
away.  If the setting is -1.0 (the default) then each processor owns a
copy of ghost cells for all grid cells in the simulation.  This can
require too much memory for large models.  If the cutoff is 0.0,
processors own a minimal number of ghost cells.  This saves memory but
may require multiple passes of communication each timestep to move all
the particles and migrate them to new owning processors.  Typically a
cutoff the size of 2-3 grid cell diameters is a good compromise that
requires only modest memory to store ghost cells and allows all
particle moves to complete in only one pass of communication.

An example of the {gridcut} cutoff applied to a clumped assignment is
shown in this zoom-in of a 2d hierarchical grid with 5 levels, refined
around a tilted ellipsoidal surface object (outlined in pink).  One
processor owns the grid cells colored orange.  A bounding rectangle
around the orange cells, extended by a short cutoff distance, is drawn
as a purple rectangle.  The rectangle contains only a few ghost grid
cells owned by other processors.

:c,image(JPG/partition_zoom_cutoff.jpg)

IMPORTANT NOTE: Using the {gridcut} keyword with a cutoff >= 0.0 is
only allowed if the grid cells owned by each processor are "clumped".
If each processor's grid cells are "dispersed", then ghost cells
cannot be created with a {gridcut} cutoff >= 0.0.  Whenever ghost
cells are generated, a warning to this effect will be triggered.  At a
later point when surfaces are read in or a simulation is performed, an
error will result.  The solution is to use the
"balance_grid"_balance_grid.html command to change to a clumped grid
cell assignment.  See "Section 6.8"_Section_howto.html#howto_8 of the
manual for an explanation of clumped and dispersed grid cell
assignments and their relative performance trade-offs.

IMPORTANT NOTE: If grid cells have already been defined via the
"create_grid"_create_grid.html, "read_grid"_read_grid.html, or
"read_restart"_read_restart.html commands, when the {gridcut} cutoff
is specified, then any ghost cell information that is currently stored
will be erased.  As discussed in the preceeding paragraph, a
"balance_grid"_balance_grid.html command must then be invoked to
regenerate ghost cell information.  If this is not done before
surfaces are read in or a simulation is performed, an error will
result.

The {comm/sort} keyword determines whether the messages a proc
receives for migrating particles (every step) and ghost grid cells (at
setup and after re-balance) are sorted by processor ID.  Doing this
requires a bit of overhead, but can make it easier to debug in
parallel, because simulations should be reproducible when run on the
same number of processors.  Without sorting, messages may arrive in a
randomized order, which means lists of particles and grid cells end up
in a different order leading to statistical differences between runs.

The {comm/style} keyword determines the style of particle
communication that is performed to migrate particles every step.  The
most efficient method is typically for each processor to exchange
messages with only the processors it has ghost cells for, which is the
method used by the {neigh} setting.  The {all} setting performs a
relatively cheap, but global communication operation to determine the
exact set of neighbors that need to be communicated with at each step.
For small processor counts there is typically little difference.  On
large processor counts the {neigh} setting can be significantly
faster.  However, if the flow is streaming in one dominant direction,
there may be no particle migration needed to upwind processors, so the
{all} method can generate smaller counts of neighboring processors.

Note that the {neigh} style only has an effect (at run time) when the
grid is decomposed by the RCB option of the "balance"_balance.html or
"fix balance"_fix_balance.html commands.  If that is not the case,
SPARTA performs the particle communication as if the {all} setting
were in place.

The {weight} keyword determines whether particle weighting is used.
Currently the only style allowed, as specified by wstyle = {cell}, is
per-cell weighting.  This is a mechanism for inducing every grid cell
to contain roughly the same number of particles (even if cells are of
varying size), so as to minimize the total number of particles used in
a simulation while preserving accurate time and spatial averages of
flow quantities.  The cell weights also affect how many particles per
cell are created by the "create_particles"_create_particles.html and
"fix emit"_fix_emit_face.html command variants.

If the mode is set to {none}, per-cell weighting is turned off if it
was previously enabled.  For mode = {volume} or {radius} or
{radius/only}, per-cell weighting is enabled, which triggers two
computations.  First, at the time this command is issued, each grid
cell is assigned a "weight" which is calculated based either on the
cell {volume} or {radius}, as specified by the {mode} setting.  For
the {volume} setting, the weight of a cell is its 3d volume for a 3d
model, and the weight is its 2d area for a 2d model.  For an
axi-symmetric model, the weight is the 3d volume of the 2d
axi-symmetric cell, i.e. the volume the area sweeps out when rotated
around the y=0 axis of symmetry.  The {radius} and {radius/only}
settings are only allowed for axisymmetric systems.  For the {radius}
option, the weight is the distance the cell midpoint is from the y=0
axis of symmetry, multiplied by the length of the cell in the x
direction.  This mode attempts to preserve a uniform number of
particles in each cell, regardless of the cell area, for a uniform
targeted density.  For the {radius/only} option, the weight is just the
distance the cell midpoint is from the y=0 axis of symmetry. This mode attempts to preserve a uniform distribution of particles
per unit area, for a uniform targeted density.  See "Section
6.2"_Section_howto.html#howto_2 for more details on axi-symmetric
models.

Second, when a particle moves from an initial cell to a final cell,
the initial/final ratio of the two cell weights is calculated.  If the
ratio > 1, then additional particles may be created in the final cell,
by cloning the attributes of the incoming particle.  E.g. if the ratio
= 3.4, then two extra particle are created, and a 3rd is created with
probability 0.4.  If the ratio < 1, then the incoming particle may be
deleted.  E.g. if the ratio is 0.7, then the incoming particle is
deleted with probability 0.3.

Note that the first calculation of weights is performed whenever the
{global weight} command is issued.  If particles already exist, they
are not cloned or destroyed by the new weights.  The second
calculation only happens when a simulation is run.

The {particle/reorder} keyword determines how often the list of 
particles on each processor is reordered to store particles in the same 
grid cell contiguously in memory. This operation is performed every 
{nsteps} as specified. A value of 0 means no reordering is ever done. 
This option is only available when using the KOKKOS package and can 
improve performance on certain hardware such as GPUs, but is typically 
slower on CPUs except when running on thousands of nodes. Reordering
requires sorting the particles, which is done automatically when
collisions are enabled. If collisions are not enabled, then sorting
will also be performed in addition to reordering. 

The {mem/limit} keyword limits the amount of memory allocated for 
several operations: load balancing, reordering of particles, and restart 
file read/write. This should only be necessary for very large 
simulations where the memory footprint for particles and grid cells is a 
significant fraction of available memory. In this case, these operations 
can trigger a memory error due to the additional memory they require. 
Setting a limit on the memory size will perform these operations more 
incrementally so that memory errors do not occur. 

A load-balance operation can use as much as 3x more memory than the 
memory used to store particles (reported by SPARTA when a simulation 
begins). Particle reordering temporarily doubles the memory needed to 
store particles because it is performed out-of-place by default. Reading 
and writing restart files also requires temporary buffers to hold grid 
cells and particles and can double the memory required. 

Specifying the value for {mem/limit} as {grid}, will allocate extra 
memory limited to the size of memory for storing grid cells on each 
processor. For most simulations this is typically much smaller than the 
memory used to store particles. Specifying a numeric value for {bytes} 
will allocate extra memory limited to that many MBytes on each 
processor. {Bytes} can be specified as a floating point value or an 
integer, e.g. 0.5 if you want to use 1/2 MByte of extra memory or 100 
for a 100 MByte buffer. Specifying a value of 0 (the default) means no 
limit is used. The value used for {mem/limit} must not exceed 2GB or an
error will occur.

For load-balancing, the communication of grid and particle data to new 
processors will then be performed in multiple passes (if necessary) so 
that only a portion of grid cells and their particles which fit into the 
extra memory are migrated in each pass. Similarly for particle 
reordering, multiple passes are performed using the extra memory to 
reorder the particles nearly in-place. For reading/writing restart 
files, multiple passes are used to read from or write to the restart 
file as well. For reading restart files, this option is ignored unless 
reading from multiple files (i.e. a "%" character was used in the 
command to write out the restart) and the number of MPI ranks is greater 
than the number of files. 

Note that for these operations if the extra memory is too small, 
performance will suffer due to the large number of multiple passes 
required. 

If the {optmove} keyword is set to {yes} then an optimized move
algorithm will be used when possible. Normally, as particles advect
through the mesh each intermediate grid cell crossing must be found
since the particle may encounter a box boundary or surface element.
However, if there are no surfaces and the grid is uniform (only a
single level for all cells without further refinement) and the
{optmove} keyword is set to {yes} then the particle will be moved to
its final position in a single step, skipping all intermediate grid
cell crossings, which can improve performance. If a particle hits a
box boundary or leaves the owning proc's subdomain (including the
ghost cell region), then the normal (non-optimized) move algorithm
will be used for that specific particle on that timestep. The {optmove
yes} option cannot be used when surfaces are defined, the grid is not
uniform, or when fix adapt is enabled, otherwise an error will result.

[Restrictions:]

The global surfmax command must be used before surface elements are
defined, e.g. via the "read_surf"_read_surf.html command.

[Related commands:]

"mixture"_mixture.html

[Default:]

The keyword defaults are fnum = 1.0, nrho = 1.0, vstream = 0.0 0.0
0.0, temp = 273.15, field = none, surfs = explicit, surfgrid = auto,
surfmax = 100, splitmax = 10, surftally = auto,
gridcut = -1.0, comm/sort = no, comm/style = neigh, weight = cell
none, particle/reorder = 0, mem/limit = 0, optmove = no.
