"SPARTA WWW Site"_sws - "SPARTA Documentation"_sd - "SPARTA Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,http://sparta.sandia.gov)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

read_surf command :h3

[Syntax:]

read_surf filename keyword args ... :pre

filename = name of surface file :ulb,l
zero or more keyword/args pairs may be appended :l
keyword = {origin} or {trans} or {atrans} or {ftrans} or {scale} or {rotate} or {invert} or {clip} or {group} or {typeadd} or {particle} :l
  origin args = Ox Oy Oz
    Ox,Oy,Oz = set origin of surface to this point (distance units)
  trans args = Dx Dy Dz
    Dx,Dy,Dz = translate origin by this displacement (distance units)
  atrans args = Ax Ay Az
    Ax,Ax,Az = translate origin to this absolute point (distance units)
  ftrans args = Fx Fy Fz
    Fx,Fy,Fz = translate origin to this fractional point in simulation box
  scale args = Sx Sy Sz
    Sx,Sy,Sz = scale surface by these factors around origin
  rotate args = theta Rx Ry Rz
    theta = rotate surface by this angle in counter-clockwise direction (degrees)
    Rx,Ry,Rz = rotate around vector starting at origin pointing in this direction
  invert args = none
  clip args = none or fraction
    fraction = push points close to the box boundary to the boundary (optional)
  group arg = group-ID
    group-ID = new or existing surface group to assign the surface elements to
  typeadd arg = Noffset
    Noffset = add Noffset to the type value of each element
  particle args = {none} or {check} or {keep}
    none = allow no particles in simulation when read surfs
    check = delete particles inside surfs or in cells intersected by surfs
    keep = keep all particles :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

read_surf surf.sphere
read_surf surf.sphere group sphere2 typeadd 1
read_surf surf.file trans 10 5 0 scale 3 3 3 invert clip
read_surf surf.file trans 10 5 0 scale 3 3 3 invert clip 1.0e-6 :pre

[Description:]

Read the geometry of a surface from the specified file.  In SPARTA, a
"surface" is a collection of surface elements that represent the
surface(s) of one or more physical objects which will be embedded in
the global simulation box.  Surfaces can be explicit or implicit.
This command reads explicit surfaces from a file containing a list of
explicit surfaces.  See the "read_isurf"_read_isurf.html command to
read implicit surfaces from a different kind of file.  See the "Howto
6.13"_Section_howto.html#howto_13 section of the manual for an
explantion of explicit versus implicit surfaces as well as distributed
versus non-distributed storage.  You cannot mix explicit and implicit
surfaces in the same simulation.

Surface elements are triangles in 3d or line segments in 2d.  Surface
elements for each physical object are required to be a complete,
connected set that tile the entire surface of the object.  See the
discussion of watertight surfaces below.

Particles collide with surface elements as they advect.  Each surface
element is assigned to a collision model, specified by the
"surf_collide"_surf_collide.html command which affects how a particle
bounces off the surface.  Each surface element can optionally be
assigned to a reaction model, specified by the
"surf_react"_surf_react.html command which determines if any surface
chemistry occurs during a collision.  Statistics for each surface
element due to their interactions with particles can be tallied via
the "compute surf"_compute_surf.html command, time-averaged via the
"fix ave/surf"_fix_ave_surf.html command, and ouput via the "dump
surface"_dump.html command.

Surface elememts can be assigned to surface groups via the "group
surf"_group.html command.  Surface group IDs are used by other
commands to operate on selected sets of elements.  This command has
{group} and {typeadd} keywords which can be used to help assign
different elements or different objects to different groups.

Explicit surface elements can be stored in a distributed fashion (each
processor only stores elements which overlap grid cells it owns or has
a ghost cell copy of).  Or each processor can store a copy of all
surface elements (the default).  See the "global surfs"_global.html to
change this setting.

Note that the read_surf command can be used multiple times to read
multiple objects from multiple files and add them to the simulation
domain.  The format of a surface file for explicit elements is
discussed below.  Optional keywords allow the vertices in the file to
be translated, scaled, and rotated in various ways.  This allows a
single surface file, e.g. containing a unit sphere, to be used
multiple times in a single simulation or in different simulations.

The tools directory contains tools that can create surface files with
simple geometric objects (spheres, blocks, etc).  It also has tools
that can convert surface files in other formats to the SPARTA format
for explicit surfaces, e.g. for files created by a mesh-generation
program.

:line

The specified file can be a text file or a gzipped text file (detected
by a .gz suffix).

A surface file for explicit surfaces has a header and a body.  The
header appears first.  The first line of the header is always skipped;
it typically contains a description of the file.  Then lines are read
one at a time.  Lines can have a trailing comment starting with '#'
that is ignored.  If the line is blank (only whitespace after comment
is deleted), it is skipped.  If the line contains a header keyword,
the corresponding value is read from the line.  If it doesn't contain
a header keyword, the line begins the body of the file.

The body of the file contains one or more sections.  The first line of
a section has only a keyword.  The next line is skipped.  The
remaining lines of the section contain values.  The number of lines in
a section depends on the section keyword as described below.  Zero or
more blank lines can be used between sections.  Sections can appear in
any order.

The formatting of individual lines in the surface file (indentation,
spacing between words and numbers) is not important except that header
and section keywords must be capitalized as shown and can't have extra
white space between their words.

These are the recognized header keywords.  Header lines can come in
any order.  The value(s) are read from the beginning of the line.
Thus the keyword {points} should be in a line like "1000 points".

{points} = # of points in surface
{lines} = # of line segments in surface (only allowed for 2d)
{triangles} = # of triangles in surface (only allowed for 3d) :ul

These are the recognized section keywords for the body of the file.

{Points, Lines, Triangles} :ul

The {Points} section consists of N consecutive entries, where N = # of
points, each of this form:

point-ID x y z    (for 3d) 
point-ID x y      (for 2d) :pre

The point-ID is ignored; it is only added to assist in examining the
file.  The point-IDs should run consecutively from 1 to N.  {X,y,z}
are the coordinates of the point in distance units.  Note that for 2d
simulations, {z} should be omitted.

The {Lines} section is only allowed for 2d simulations and consists of
N entries, where N = # of lines, each of this form:

line-ID (type) p1 p2 :pre

The line-ID is ignored; it is only added to assist in examining the
file.  {Type} is an optional integer value which must be specified for
all or none of the lines.  If used, it must be a positive integer
value for each line.  If not specified, the type of each line is set
to 1.  Line types can be used to assign lines to surface groups via
the "group surf"_group.html command.

{P1} and {p2} are the point-IDs of the 2 end points of the line
segment.  Each is a value from 1 to Npoints, as described above.

The ordering of {p1} and {p2} is important as it defines the direction
of the outward normal for the line segment when a particle collides
with it.  Molecules only collide with the "outer" edge of a line
segment.  This is defined by a right-hand rule.  The outward normal N
= (0,0,1) x (p2-p1).  In other words, a unit z-direction vector is
crossed into the vector from {p1} to {p2} to determine the normal.

The {Triangles} section is only allowed for 3d simulations and
consists of N entries, where N = # of triangles, each of this form:

tri-ID (type) p1 p2 p3 :pre

The tri-ID is ignored; it is only added to assist in examining the
file.  {Type} is an optional integer value which must be specified for
all or none of the triangles.  If used, it must be a positive integer
value for each triangle.  If not specified, the type of each triangle
is set to 1.  Triangle types can be used to assign triangles to
surface groups via the "group surf"_group.html command.

{P1} and {p2} and {p3} are the point-IDs of the 3 corner points of the
triangle.  Each is a value from 1 to Npoints, as described above.

The ordering of {p1} and {p2} and {p3} is important as it defines the
direction of the outward normal for the triangle when a particle
collides with it.  Molecules only collide with the "outer" face of a
triangle. This is defined by a right-hand rule.  The outward normal N
= (p2-p1) x (p3-p1).  In other words, the edge from {p1} to {p2} is
crossed into the edge from {p1} to {p3} to determine the normal.

:line

The following optional keywords affect the geometry of the read-in
surface elements.  The geometric transformations they describe are
performed in the order they are listed, which gives flexibility in how
surfaces can be manipulated.  Note that the order may be important;
e.g. performing an {origin} operation followed by a {rotate} operation
may not be the same as a {rotate} followed by a {origin}.

Most of the keywords perform a geometric transformation on all the
vertices in the surface file with respect to an origin point.  By
default the origin is (0.0,0.0,0.0), regardless of the position of
individual vertices in the file.

The {origin} keyword resets the origin to the specified {Ox,Oy,Oz}.
This operation has no effect on the vertices.

The {trans} keyword shifts or displaces the origin by the vector
(Dx,Dy,Dz).  It also displaces each vertex by (Dx,Dy,Dz).

The {atrans} keyword resets the origin to an absolute point (Ax,Ay,Az)
which implies a displacement (Dx,Dy,Dz) from the current origin.  It
also displaces each vertex by (Dx,Dy,Dz).

The {ftrans} keyword resets the origin to a fractional point
(Fx,Fy,Fz).  Fractional means that Fx = 0.0 is the lower edge/face in
the x-dimension and Fx = 1.0 is the upper edge/face in the
x-dimension, and similarly for Fy and Fz.  This change of origin
implies a displacement (Dx,Dy,Dz) from the current origin.  This
operation also displaces each vertex by (Dx,Dy,Dz).

The {scale} keyword does not change the origin.  It computes the
displacement vector of each vertex from the origin (delx,dely,delz)
and scales that vector by (Sx,Sy,Sz), so that the new vertex
coordinate is (Ox + Sx*delx,Oy + Sy*dely,Oz + Sz*delz).

The {rotate} keyword does not change the origin.  It rotates the
coordinates of all vertices by an angle {theta} in a counter-clockwise
direction, around the vector starting at the origin and pointing in
the direction {Rx,Ry,Rz}.  Any rotation can be represented by an
appropriate choice of origin, {theta} and (Rx,Ry,Rz).

The {invert} keyword does not change the origin or any vertex
coordinates.  It flips the direction of the outward surface normal of
each surface element by changing the ordering of its vertices.  Since
particles only collide with the outer surface of a surface element,
this is a mechanism for using a surface files containing a single
sphere (for example) as either a sphere to embed in a flow field, or a
spherical outer boundary containing the flow.

The {clip} keyword does not change the origin.  It truncates or
"clips" a surface that extends outside the simulation box in the
following manner.  In 3d, each of the 6 clip planes represented by
faces of the global simulation box are considered in turn.  Any
triangle that straddles the face (with points on both sides of the
clip plane), is truncated at the plane.  New points along the edges
that cross the plane are created.  A triangle may also become a
trapezoid, in which case it turned into 2 triangles.  Then all the
points on the side of the clip plane that is outside the box, are
projected onto the clip plane.  Finally, all triangles that lie in the
clip plane are removed, as are any points that are unused after the
triangle removal.  After this operation is repeated for all 6 faces,
the remaining surface is entirely inside the simulation box, though
some of its triangles may include points on the faces of the
simulation box.  A similar operation is performed in 2d with the 4
clip edges represented by the edges of the global simulation box.

IMPORTANT NOTE: If a surface you clip crosses a periodic boundary, as
specified by the "boundary"_boundary.html command, then the clipping
that takes place must be consistent on both the low and high end of
the box (in the periodic dimension).  This means any point on the
boundary that is generated by the clip operation should be generated
twice, once on the low side of the box and once on the high side.  And
those two points must be periodic images of each other, as implied by
periodicity.  If the surface you are reading does not clip in this
manner, then SPARTA will likely generate an error about mis-matched or
inconsistent cells when it attempts to mark all the grid cells and
their corner points as inside vs outside the surface.

If you use the {clip} keyword, you should check the resulting
statistics of the clipped surface printed out by this command,
including the minimum size of line and triangle edge lengths.  It is
possible that very short lines or very small triangles will be created
near the box surface due to the clipping operation, depending on the
coordinates of the initial unclipped points.

If this is the case, an optional {fraction} argument can be appended
to the {clip} keyword.  {Fraction} is a unitless value which is
converted to a distance {delta} in each dimension where delta =
fraction * (boxhi - boxlo).  If a point is nearer than delta to the lo
or hi boundary in a dimension, the point is moved to be on the
boundary, before the clipping operation takes place.  This can prevent
tiny surface elements from being created due to clipping.  If
{fraction} is not specified, the default value is 0.0, which means
points are not moved.  If specified, {fraction} must be a value
between 0.0 and 0.5.

Note that the {clip} operation may delete some surface elements and
create new ones.  Likewise for the points that define the end points
or corner points of surface element lines (2d) or triangles (3d).  The
resulting altered set of surface elements can be written out to a file
by the "write_surf"_write_surf.html command, which can then be used an
input to a new simulation or for post-processing and visualization.

:line

The following optional keywords affect group and type settings of the
read-in surface elements.

Surface groups are collections of surface elements.  Each surface
element belongs to one or more surface groups; all elements belong to
the "all" group, which is created by default.  Surface group IDs are
used by other commands to identify a group of suface elements to
operate on.  See the "group surf"_group.html command for more details.

Every surface element also stores a {type} which is a positive
integer.  {Type} values are useful for flagging subsets of elements or
different objects in the surface file.  For example, a patch of
triangles on a sphere.  Or one sphere out of several that the file
contains.  Surface element types can be used to define surface groups.
See the "group surf"_group.html command for details.

The {group} keyword specifies an extra surface {group-ID} to assign
all the read-in surface elements to.  All the read-in elements are
assigned to the "all" group and to {group-ID}.  If {group-ID} does not
exist, a new surface group is created.  If it does exist the read-in
surface elements are added to that group.

The {typeadd} keyword defines an {Noffset} value which is added to the
type of each read-in surface element.  The default is Noffset = 0,
which means the read-in type values are not altered.  If type values
are not included in the file, they default to 1 for every element, but
can still be altered by the {typeadd} keyword.

Note that use of the {group} and {typeadd} keywords allow the same
surface file to be read multiple times (e.g. with different origins,
tranlations, rotations, etc) to define multiple objects, and assign
their surface elements to different groups or different type values.

The {particle} keyword determines how particles in the simulation are
affected by the new surface elements.  If the setting is {none}, which
is the default, then no particles can exist in the simulation.  If the
setting is {check}, then particles in grid cells that are inside the
new watertight surface object(s) or in grid cells intersected by the
new surface elements are deleted.  This is to insure no particles will
end up inside a surface object, which will typically generate errors
when particles move.  If the setting is {keep} then no particles are
deleted.  It is up to you to insure that no particles are inside
surface object(s), else an error may occur later.  This setting can
be useful if a "remove_surf"_remove_surf.html was used to remove
a surface object, and a new object is being read in, and you know
the new object is smaller than the one it replaced.  E.g. for a model
of a shrinking or ablating object.

:line

[Restrictions:]

This command can only be used after the simulation box is defined by
the "create_box"_create_box.html command, and after a grid has been
created by the "create_grid"_create_grid.html command.  If particles
already exist in the simulation, you must insure particles do not
end up inside the added surfaces.  See the {particle} keyword
for options with regard to particles.

To read gzipped surface files, you must compile SPARTA with the
-DSPARTA_GZIP option - see "Section 2.2"_Section_start.html#start_2 of
the manual for details.

The {clip} keyword cannot be used when the "global surfs
explicit/distributed"_global.html command has been used.  This is
because we have not yet figured out how to clip distributed surfaces.

Every vertex in the final surface (after translation, rotation,
scaling, etc) must be inside or on the surface of the global
simulation box.  Note that using the {clip} operation guarantees that
this will be the case.

The surface elements in a single surface file must represent a
"watertight" surface.  For a 2d simulation this means that every point
is part of exactly 2 line segments.  For a 3d simulation it means that
every triangle edge is part of exactly 2 triangles.  Exceptions to
these rules allow for triangle edges (in 3d) that lie entirely in a
global face of the simulation box, or for line points (in 2d) that are
on a global edge of the simulation box.  This can be the case after
clipping, which allows for use of watertight surface object (e.g. a
sphere) that is only partially inside the simulation box, but which
when clipped to the box becomes non-watertight, e.g. half of a sphere.

Note that this definition of watertight does not require that the
surface elements in a file represent a single physical object;
multiple objects (e.g. spheres) can be represented, provided each is
watertight.

Another restriction on surfaces is that they do not represent an
object that is "infinitely thin", so that two sides of the same object
lie in the same plane (3d) or on the same line (2d).  This will not
generate an error when the surface file is read, assuming the
watertight rule is followed.  However when particles collide with the
surface, errors will be generated if a particle hits the "inside" of a
surface element before hitting the "outside" of another element.  This
can occur for infinitely thin surfaces due to numeric round-off.

When running a simulation with multiple objects, read from one or more
surface files, you should insure they do not touch or overlap with
each other.  SPARTA does not check for this, but it will typically
lead to unphysical particle dynamics.

[Related commands:]

"write_surf"_write_surf.html

[Default:]

The default origin for the vertices in the surface file is (0,0,0).
The defaults for group = all, type = no, toffset = 0, particle = none.
