"SPARTA WWW Site"_sws - "SPARTA Documentation"_sd - "SPARTA Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,https://sparta.github.io)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

read_grid command :h3

[Syntax:]

read_grid filename keyword args ... :pre

filename = name of grid file :ulb,l
zero or more keyword/args pairs may be appended :l
keyword = {custom} :l
  {custom} args = name datatype Nc
    name = name of custom per-grid vector or array
    datatype = {int} or {float} = for integer or floating point values
    Nc = 0 for a vector (single value), Nc >= 1 for an array (one or more values) :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

read_grid data.grid
read_grid data.grid custom temperature double 0 :pre

[Description:]

Read a grid file in text format which lists the grid cell IDs to be
used to construct a hierarchical grid that overalys the simulation
domain defined by the "create_box"_create_box.html command.  The grid
can also be defined by the "create_grid"_create_grid.html command.

The grid file can be written by the "write_grid"_write_grid.html
command in a previous simulation, or be created by some pre-processing
tool.  See "Section 6.8"_Section_howto.html#howto_8 of the manual for
a definition of hierarchical grids and grid cell IDs as used by
SPARTA.  Note that if the grid is hierarchical, grid cell IDs are not
simply numbered from 1 to N.  They also encode the cell's logical
position within the grid hierarchy.

The specified file can be a text file or a gzipped text file (detected
by a .gz suffix).  See the "write_grid"_write.grid.html command for a
description of the format of the file.

The grid cell IDs read from the file (one per line) are assigned to
processors in a round-robin fashion, which means in general the set of
cells a processor owns will not be contiguous in a geometric sense.
They are thus assumed to be a "dispersed" assignment of grid cells to
each processor.

IMPORTANT NOTE: See "Section 6.8"_Section_howto.html#howto_8 of the
manual for an explanation of clumped and dispersed grid cell
assignments and their relative performance trade-offs.  The
"balance_grid"_balance_grid.html command can be used after the grid is
read, to assign child cells to processors in different ways.  The "fix
balance" command can be used to re-assign them in a load-balanced
manner periodically during a running simulation.

The {custom} keyword allows a custom per-grid vector or array to be
created and initialized.  Custom vectors or arrays associate a single
value or multiple values with each grid cell.  They can be output by
the "dump grid"_dump.html command and uses as inputs by other
commands.  For example, many of the models for the
"surf_collide"_surf_collide.html command take temperature as an input;
use of a per-surf vector allows the temperature of individual surface
elements to be specified.

The {name} argument is the name assigned to the new custom vector or
array.  The {datatytpe} argument is {int} or {float} which determines
whether the vector/array stores integer or floating point values.  The
{Nc} argument is 0 for a per-surgrid vector and an integer >= 1 for an
array with {Nc} columns.  A per-grid vector stores a single value per
grid cell; a per-grid array stores Nc values per grid cell.

Each use of the {custom} keyword determines how many values are
appended for each line following the grid cell ID.  For a custom
per-grid vector, a single value is appended.  For a custom per-grid
array, Nc values are appended.  The values are assigned to custom
vectors or arrays in the order the {custom} keywords are specified.
For example, for this read_grid command, 4 custom values should be
added to the end of each line in the Cells section of the input file:

read_grid grid.data custom temperature float 0 custom flags int 3 :pre

The first floating-point value will be the temperature, the next 3
integers will be flags.

[Restrictions:]

This command can only be used after the simulation box is defined by
the "create_box"_create_box.html command.

To read gzipped grid files, you must compile SPARTA with the
-DSPARTA_GZIP option - see "Section 2.2"_Section_start.html#start_2 of
the manual for details.

[Related commands:]

"create_box"_create_box.html, "create_grid"_create_grid.html,
"write_grid"_write_grid.html

[Default:] none
