"Previous Section"_Section_perf.html - "SPARTA WWW Site"_sws - "SPARTA
Documentation"_sd - "SPARTA Commands"_sc - "Next
Section"_Section_modify.html :c

:link(sws,http://sparta.sandia.gov)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

9. Additional tools :h3

SPARTA is designed to be a computational kernel for performing DSMC
computations.  Additional pre- and post-processing steps are often
necessary to setup and analyze a simulation.  A few additional tools
are provided with the SPARTA distribution in the tools directory and
are described briefly below.

Our group has also written and released a separate toolkit called
"Pizza.py"_pizza which provides tools for doing setup, analysis,
plotting, and visualization for SPARTA simulations.  Pizza.py is
written in "Python"_python and is available for download from "the
Pizza.py web site"_pizza.

:link(pizza,http://pizza.sandia.gov)
:link(python,http://www.python.org)

Some of the Pizza.py tools relevant to SPARTA are as follows:

dump - read, write, manipulate particle dump files
gl - 3d interactive visualization via OpenGL of dump or surface files
sdata - read, write, manipulate surface files
olog - read log files and extract columns of data
vcr - VCR-style GUI for 3d interactive OpenGL visualization of dump or surface files :ul

The dump, sdata, and olog tools are included in the SPARTA
distribution in the tools/pizza directory, and are used by some of the
scripts discussed below.

This is the list of tools included in the tools directory of the
SPARTA distribution.  Each is described in more detail below.

"dump2cfg"_#dump2cfg - convert a particle dump file to CFG format
"dump2xyz"_#dump2xyz - convert a particle dump file to XYZ format
"grid_refine"_#gridrefine - refine a grid around a surface
"implicit_grid"_#implicit - create a random porous region with implicit surfaces
"jagged"_#jagged - create jagged 2d/3d surfaces with explicit surfaces
"log2txt"_#log2txt - extract columns of info from a log file
"logplot"_#logplot - plot columns of info from a log file via GnuPlot
"paraview"_#paraview - converters of SPARTA data to "ParaView"_paraview format
"stl2surf"_#stl2surf - convert an STL text file into a SPARTA surface file
"surf_create"_#surfcreate - create a surface file with simple objects
"surf_transform"_#surftransform - transform surface via tranlate/scale/rotate operations :ul

:link(paraview,http://www.paraview.org)

:line
:line

dump2cfg tool :h4,link(dump2cfg)

This is a Python script that converts a SPARTA particle dump file into
extended CFG format so that it can be visualized by the
"AtomEye"_http://mt.seas.upenn.edu/Archive/Graphics/A visualization
program.  AtomEye is a very fast particle visualizer, capable of
interactive visualizations of millions of particles on a desktop
machine.  It is commonly used in the materials modeling community.

See the header of the script for the syntax used to run it.

This script uses one or more of the "Pizza.py" tools provided in the
tools/pizza directory.  See the tools/README file for info on how to
set an environment variable so that the Pizza.py tool files can be
found by Python, as well as instructions on various ways to run a
Python script.

:line

dump2xyz tool :h4,link(dump2xyz)

This is a Python script that converts a SPARTA particle dump file into
XYZ format so that it can be visualized by various visualization
packages that read XYZ formatted files.  An example is
"VMD"_http://www.ks.uiuc.edu/Research/vmd package, commonly used in
the molecular dynamics modeling community.

See the header of the script for the syntax used to run it.

This script uses one or more of the "Pizza.py" tools provided in the
tools/pizza directory.  See the tools/README file for info on how to
set an environment variable so that the Pizza.py tool files can be
found by Python, as well as instructions on various ways to run a
Python script.

:line

grid_refine tool :h4,link(gridrefine)

This is a Python script that creates a SPARTA grid file adapted
around the lines or triangles in a SPARTA surface file.  The resulting
grid file can be read by the "read_grid"_read_grid.html command.
The surface file can be read by the "read_surf"_read_surf.html command.

See the header of the script for the various adaptivity options that
are supported, and the syntax used to run it.

:line

implicit_grid tool :h4,link(jagged)

This is a Python script which can be used to generate binary files
representing porous media samples, as read by the
"read_isurf"_read_isurf.html command.  The output files contain
randomized grid corner point values which induce implicit surfaces
which can contain huge numbers of surface elements.  They are useful
for stress testing the implicit surface options in SPARTA, as selected
by the "global surfs"_global.html command.

See the header of the script for the syntax used to run it.

The examples/implicit directory uses these files as input.

:line

jagged tools :h4,link(jagged)

These are 2 Python scripts (jagged2d.py and jagged3d.py) which can be
used to generate SPARTA surface files in a pattern that can be very
jagged.  The surfaces can contain huge numbers of surface elements and
be read by the "read_surf"_read_surf.html command.  They are useful
for stress testing the explict surface options in SPARTA, including
distributed or non-distributed storage, as selected by the "global
surfs"_global.html command.

See the header of the scripts for the syntax used to run them.

The examples/jagged directory uses these files as input.

:line

log2txt tool :h4,link(log2txt)

This is a Python script that reads a SPARTA log file, extracts
selected columns of statistical output, and writes them to a text
file.  It knows how to concatenate log file info across multiple
successive runs.  The columnar output can then be read by various
plotting packages.

See the header of the script for the syntax used to run it.

This script uses one or more of the "Pizza.py" tools provided in the
tools/pizza directory.  See the tools/README file for info on how to
set an environment variable so that the Pizza.py tool files can be
found by Python, as well as instructions on various ways to run a
Python script.

:line

logplot tool :h4,link(logplot)

This is a Python script that reads a SPARTA log file, extracts the
selected columns of statistical output, and plots them via the GnuPlot
program.  It knows how to concatenate log file info across multiple
successive runs.

See the header of the script for the syntax used to run it.  You must
have GnuPlot installed on your system to use this script.  If you can
type "gnuplot" from the command line to start GnuPlot, it should work.
If not (e.g. because you need a path name), then edit these 2 lines as
needed in pizza/gnu.py:

except: PIZZA_GNUPLOT = "gnuplot"
except: PIZZA_GNUTERM = "x11" :pre

For example, the first could become "/home/smith/bin/gnuplot".  The
second should only need changing if GnuPlot requires a different
setting to plot to your screen.

This script uses one or more of the "Pizza.py" tools provided in the
tools/pizza directory.  See the tools/README file for info on how to
set an environment variable so that the Pizza.py tool files can be
found by Python, as well as instructions on various ways to run a
Python script.

:line

paraview tools :h4,link(paraview)

The tools/paraview directory has scripts which convert
SPARTA grid and surface data (input and output) to ParaView format.

"ParaView"_paraview is a popular, powerful, freely-available
visualization package.  You must have ParaView installed to use the
Python scripts.  See tools/paraview/README for more details.

The scripts were developed by Tom Otahal (Sandia).

:line

stl2surf tool :h4,link(stl2surf)

This is a Python script that reads a stereolithography (STL) text file
and converts it to a SPARTA surface file.  STL files contain a
collection of triangles and can be created by various mesh-generation
programs.  The format for SPARTA surface files is described on the
"read_surf"_read_surf.html command doc page.

See the header of the script for the syntax used to run it, e.g.

% python stl2surf.py stlfile surffile :pre

The script also checks the triangulated object to see if it is
"watertight" and issues a warning if it is not, since SPARTA will
perform the same check.  The "read_surf"_read_surf.html command doc
page explains what watertight means for 3d objects.

:line

surf_create tool :h4,link(surfcreate)

This is a Python script that creates a SPARTA surface file containing
one or more simple objects whose surface is represented as triangules
(3d) or line segments (2d).  Such files can be read by the
"read_surf"_read_surf.html command.  The 3d objects it supports are a
sphere, box, and spikysphere (randomized radius at each point).  The
2d objects it supports are a circle, rectangle, triangle, and
spikycircly (randomized radius at each point).

See the header of the script for the syntax used to run it.

:line

surf_transform tool :h4,link(surftransform)

This is a Python script that transforms a SPARTA surface file into a
new surface file using various operations supported by the
"read_surf"_read_surf.html command.  These operations include
translation, scaling, rotation, and inversion (changing which side of
the surface is inside vs outside).

See the header of the script for the syntax used to run it.
