"Previous Section"_Section_errors.html - "SPARTA WWW Site"_sws - "SPARTA Documentation"_sd - "SPARTA Commands"_sc - "Next Section"_Manual.html :c

:link(sws,https://sparta.github.io)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

13. Future and history :h3

This section lists features we are planning to add to SPARTA, features
of previous versions of SPARTA, and features of other parallel
molecular dynamics codes I've distributed.

13.1 "Coming attractions"_#hist_1
13.2 "Past versions"_#hist_2 :all(b)

:line

13.1 Coming attractions :h4,link(hist_1)

The "wish list link"_https://sparta.github.io/future.html on the
SPARTA web page gives a list of features we are planning to add to
SPARTA in the future.  Please contact the
"developers"__https://sparta.github.io/authors.html you are interested
in contributing to the those developments or would be a future user of
that feature.

You can also send "email to the
developers"_https://sparta.github.io/authors.html if you want to add
your wish to the list.

:line

13.2 Past versions :h4,link(hist_2)

Sandia's predecessor to SPARTA is a DSMC code called ICARUS.  It was
developed in the early 1990s by Tim Bartel and "Steve
Plimpton"_https://sjplimp.github.io.  It was later modified and
extended by Michael Gallis.

ICARUS is a 2d code, written in Fortran, which models the flow
geometry around bodies with a collection of adjoining body-fitted grid
blocks.  The geometry of the grid cells within in a single block is
represented with analytic equations, which allows for fast particle
tracking.

Some details about ICARUS, including simulation snapshots and papers,
are discussed on "this page"_http://sjplimp.github.io/dsmc.html

Performance-wise ICARUS scaled quite well on several generations of
parallel machines, and is still used by Sandia researchers today.
ICARUS was export-controlled software, and so was not distributed
widely outside of Sandia.

SPARTA development began in late 2011.  In contrast to ICARUS, it is a
3d code, written in C++, and uses a hierarchical Cartesian grid to
track particles.  Surfaces are embedded in the grid, which cuts and
splits their flow volumes.

The "Authors link"_https://sparta.github.io/history.html on the SPARTA
web page gives a timeline of features added to the code since it's
initial open-source release.

