"SPARTA WWW Site"_sws - "SPARTA Documentation"_sd - "SPARTA Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,https://sparta.github.io)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

suffix command :h3

[Syntax:]

suffix style args :pre

style = {off} or {on} or {kk} :ul

[Examples:]

suffix off
suffix on
suffix kk :pre

[Description:]

This command allows you to use variants of various styles if they
exist.  In that respect it operates the same as the "-suffix
command-line switch"_Section_start.html#start_6.  It also has options
to turn off or back on any suffix setting made via the command line.

The specified style {kk} refers to the optional KOKKOS package that
SPARTA can be built with, as described in "this section of the
manual"_Section_start.html#start_3. The KOKKOS package is a collection
of styles optimized to run using the Kokkos library on various kinds
of hardware, including GPUs via CUDA and many-core chips via OpenMP
multi-threading.

As an example, the KOKKOS package provides a "compute_style
temp"_compute_temp.html variant, with style name temp/kk. A variant
style can be specified explicitly in your input script, e.g. compute
temp/kk. If the suffix command is used with the appropriate style, you
do not need to modify your input script.  The specified suffix (kk) is
automatically appended whenever your input script command creates a
new "fix"_fix.html, "compute"_compute.html, etc.  If the variant
version does not exist, the standard version is created.

If the specified style is {off}, then any previously specified suffix
is temporarily disabled, whether it was specified by a command-line
switch or a previous suffix command.  If the specified style is {on},
a disabled suffix is turned back on.  The use of these 2 commands lets
your input script use a standard SPARTA style (i.e. a non-accelerated
variant), which can be useful for testing or benchmarking purposes.
Of course this is also possible by not using any suffix commands, and
explicitly appending or not appending the suffix to the relevant
commands in your input script.

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:]

"Command-line switch -suffix"_Section_start.html#start_6

[Default:] none
