"SPARTA WWW Site"_sws - "SPARTA Documentation"_sd - "SPARTA Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,http://sparta.sandia.gov)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

surf_collide command :h3

[Syntax:]

surf_collide ID style args keyword values ... :pre

ID = user-assigned name for the surface collision model :ulb,l
style = {specular} or {diffuse} or {cll} or {impulsive} or {td} or {piston} or {transparent} or {vanish} or {specular/kk} or {diffuse/kk} or {piston/kk} or {vanish/kk} :l
args = arguments for specific style :l
  {specular} or {specular/kk} args = none
  {diffuse} or {diffuse/kk} args = Tsurf acc
    Tsurf = temperature of surface (temperature units)
            Tsurf can be a variable (see below)
    acc = accommodation coefficient
  {cll} args = Tsurf acc_n acc_t acc_rot acc_vib
    Tsurf = temperature of surface (temperature units)
            Tsurf can be a variable (see below)
    acc_n = accommodation coefficient in the surface normal direction
    acc_t = accommodation coefficient in the surface tangential direction
    acc_rot = accommodation coefficient for the rotational modes
    acc_vib = accommodation coefficient for the vibrational modes
  {impulsive} args = Tsurf {model} param1 param2 var theta_peak pol_pow azi_pow
    Tsurf = temperature of surface (temperature units)
            Tsurf can be a variable (see below)
    {model} can be softsphere or tempvar
      {softsphere} args = en_ratio eff_mass
        param1 = en_ratio = fraction of energy lost in the collision
        param2 = eff_mass = effective mass of the surface atom
      {tempvar} args = a1 a0
        param1 = a1 = linear term in the variation with temperature
        param2 = a0 = constant term in the variation with temperature
    var = variance of the scattered particle velocity distribution
    theta_peak = peak location of the polar angle distribution
    pol_pow = cosine power represeting the polar angular distribution
    azi_pow = cosine power represeting the azimuthal angular distribution
  {td} arg = Tsurf 
    Tsurf = temperature of surface (temperature units)
            Tsurf can be a variable (see below) 
  {piston} or {piston/kk} args = Vwall
    Vwall = velocity of boundary wall (velocity units)
  {transparent} args = none :pre
  {vanish} or {vanish/kk} args = none :pre
zero or more keyword/arg pairs may be appended :l
keyword = {translate} or {rotate} or {partial} or {barrier} or {bond} or {init_energy} or {step} or {double} or {intenergy} :l
values = values for specific keyword :l
  {translate} args = Vx Vy Vz
    Vx,Vy,Vz = translational velocity of surface (velocity units)
  {rotate} args = Pz Py Pz Wx Wy Wz
    Px,Py,Pz = point to rotate surface around (distance units)
    Wx,Wy,Wz = angular velocity of surface around point (radians/time) 
  {partial} args = eccen (only for {cll} style)
    eccen = eccentricity parameter
  {barrier} args = bar_val (only for {td} style)
    {bar_val} = value of the desorption barrier in temperature units 
  {bond} args = bond_trans bond_rot bond_vib (only for {td} style)
    {bond_trans} = amount of bond dissociation energy (in temperature units) going into translational mode 
    {bond_rot} = amount of bond dissociation energy (in temperature units) going into rotational mode 
    {bond_vib} = amount of bond dissociation energy (in temperature units) going into vibrational mode
  {init_energy} = IE_trans IE_rot IE_vib (only for {td} style)
    {IE_trans} = fraction of initial translational energy going into translational mode 
    {IE_rot} = fraction of initial translational energy going into rotational mode
    {IE_vib} = fraction of initial translational energy going into vibrational mode
  {step} args = epsilon (only for {impulsive} style)
    epsilon = ratio of the height to the width of the step
  {double} args = polar_pow_2 (only for {impulsive} style)
    polar_pow_2 = cosine power for the polar angular distribution between peak and surface
  {intenergy} args = frac_rot frac_vib (only for {impulsive} style)
    frac_rot = fraction of lost translational energy going into the rotational mode
    frac_vib = fraction of lost translational energy going into the vibrational mode :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

surf_collide 1 specular
surf_collide 1 transparent
surf_collide 1 diffuse 273.15 0.9
surf_collide 1 cll 273.15 0.8 0.8 0.5 0.1
surf_collide 1 cll 273.15 1.0 1.0 0.1 0.1 partial 0.5
surf_collide 1 impulsive 1000.0 softsphere 0.2 50 2000 60 5 75
surf_collide 1 impulsive 1000.0 tempvar 3 500 2000 60 5 75
surf_collide 1 impulsive 1000.0 softsphere 0.2 50 2000 60 5 75 double 10
surf_collide 1 impulsive 1000.0 tempvar 3 500 2000 60 5 75 step 0.1
surf_collide heatwall diffuse v_ramp 0.8
surf_collide heatwall diffuse v_ramp 0.8 translate 5.0 0.0 0.0 :pre

[Description:]

Define a model for particle-surface collisions.  One or more models
can be defined and assigned to different surfaces or simulation box
boundaries via the "surf_modify"_surf_modify.html or
"bound_modify"_bound_modify.html commands.  See "Section
4.9"_Section_howto.html#howto_9 for more details of how SPARTA defines
surfaces as collections of geometric elements, triangles in 3d and
line segments in 2d.  Chemical reactions can also be part of a
particle-surface interaction model.  See the
surf_react"_surf_react.html command for details.  All of the collision
styles listed here support optional reactions, except the {vanish}
style.

The ID for a surface collision model is used to identify it in other
commands.  Each surface collision model ID must be unique.  The ID can
only contain alphanumeric characters and underscores.

:line

The {specular} style computes a simple specular reflection model.  It
requires no arguments.  Specular reflection means that a particle
reflects off a surface element with its incident velocity vector
reversed with respect to the outward normal of the surface element.
The particle's speed is unchanged.

:line

The {diffuse} style computes a simple diffusive reflection model.

The model has 2 parameters set by the {Tsurf} and {acc} arguments.
{Tsurf} is the temperature of the surface.  {Acc} is an accommodation
coefficient from 0.0 to 1.0, which determines what fraction of surface
collisions are diffusive.  The rest are specular.  Thus a setting of
{acc} = 0.0 means all collisions are specular.

Note that setting {acc} = 0.0, is a way to perform surface reactions
with specular reflection, via the "surf_react"_surf_react.html
command, which cannot be done in conjunction with the surf_collide
specular command.  See the "surf_react"_surf_react.html doc page for
details.

Diffuse reflection emits the particle from the surface with no
dependence on its incident velocity.  A new velocity is assigned to
the particle, sampled from a Gaussian distribution consistent with the
surface temperature.  The new velocity will have thermal components in
the direction of the outward surface normal and the plane tangent to
the surface given by:

:c,image(Eqs/diffuse_normal.jpg)

The {Tsurf} value can be specified as an equal-style
"variable"_variable.html.  If the value is a variable, it should be
specified as v_name, where name is the variable name.  In this case,
the variable will be evaluated each timestep, and its value used to
determine the current surface temperature.

Equal-style variables can specify formulas with various mathematical
functions, and include "stats_style"_status_style.html command
keywords for the simulation box parameters and timestep and elapsed
time.  Thus it is easy to specify a time-dependent temperature.

:line

The {cll} style computes the surface collision model proposed by
Cercignani, Lampis and Lord.  The model has 5 parameters set by the
{Tsurf}, {acc_n}, {acc_t}, {acc_rot}, and {acc_vib} arguments. {Tsurf}
is the temperature of the surface.  {acc_n}, {acc_t}, {acc_rot}, and
{acc_vib} are the accommodation coefficient for the surface normal
direction, surface tangential directions, rotational energy mode, and
vibrational energy mode respectively. The rotational and vibrational
energy accommodation values must be specified even for an atomic
species; however these values are simply ignored.

The theoretical scattering kernel was proposed by Cercignani and
Lampis "(Cercignani71)"_#Cercignani71. In this original model, two
accommodation coefficients for the normal and tangential directions
are employed. Each of these quantities can take a value between 0 and
1. Specular reflection is achieved by using the values (0,0), while
complete thermal accommodation with the surface and cosine angular
distributions is obtained using (1,1).  There is smooth variation of
both the energy and angular distribution for values in between these
limits leading to lobular distributions similar to those observed in
experiments. The implementation details of this model within DSMC was
given by Lord "(Lord90)"_#Lord90, along with extension to rotational
and vibrational modes with both continuous and discrete levels
"(Lord91)"_#Lord91.

The {Tsurf} value can be specified as an equal-style
"variable"_variable.html.  If the value is a variable, it should be
specified as v_name, where name is the variable name.  In this case,
the variable will be evaluated each timestep, and its value used to
determine the current surface temperature.

Equal-style variables can specify formulas with various mathematical
functions and include "stats_style"_status_style.html command keywords
for the simulation box parameters and timestep and elapsed time.
Thus, it is easy to specify a time-dependent temperature.

:line

The {td} style computes the thermal desorption surface collision model
proposed by Swaminathan Gopalan {et al.} "(SG18)"_#SG18. The model has
1 parameter set by {Tsurf} argument, which is the temperature of the
surface. This is similar to {diffuse} style with an accommodation
coefficient {acc} = 1.0.

The particles are scattered thermally based on the Maxwell Boltzmann
distribution conisstent with the surface temperture.  The new velocity
will have thermal components in the direction of the outward surface
normal and the plane tangent to the surface given by:

:c,image(Eqs/diffuse_normal.jpg) 

The {Tsurf} value can be specified as an equal-style
"variable"_variable.html.  If the value is a variable, it should be
specified as v_name, where name is the variable name.  In this case,
the variable will be evaluated each timestep, and its value used to
determine the current surface temperature.

Equal-style variables can specify formulas with various mathematical
functions, and include "stats_style"_status_style.html command
keywords for the simulation box parameters and timestep and elapsed
time.  Thus it is easy to specify a time-dependent temperature.

:line

The {impuslive} style computes the surface collision model proposed by
Swaminathan Gopalan {et al.} "(SG18)"_#SG18. The model has 8
parameters.  Within impulsive scattering, two different models are
available, namely {softsphere} and {tempvar}. The {softsphere}
argument uses the soft sphere model and has two parameters: {en_ratio}
which represents the fraction of energy lost during the collision, and
{eff_mass} specifying the effective mass of the surface atom. The
{tempvar} argument directly provides the peak value of the scattered
particle velocity distribution as a linear function of temperature. It
has two parameters: the linear term {a1} and constant term {a0}. The
other five parameters {Tsurf}, {var}, {pol_peak}, {pol_pow}, {azi_pow}
are set for both the models. {Tsurf} is the surface temperature. {var}
is the variance of the scattered particle velocity
distribution. {pol_peak} is the peak of the polar angle
distribution. {pol_pow} and {azi_pow} are the cosine power
representing the polar and azimuthal angle distribution respectively.

The {impulsive} model is used to represent the scattering of particles
having super or hyperthermal translational energies and very low
internal energies, like in a beam. This type of scattering falls under
the structural regime, whose scattering physics and distributions are
very different from the thermal regime. The velocity distribution of
the impulsive scattering model can be represented using a Gaussian
distribution with a mean {u0} and a variance {\alpha} following
Rettner "(Rettner94a)"_#Rettner94a

:c,image(Eqs/impulsive_u0.JPG)

The variance parameter is directly specified by the user. The value of {u0} 
can be provided directly using the {tempvar} model in which it is represented 
as a linear function of temperature. The linear term {a1} and constant term 
{a0} are given as inputs. 

:c,image(Eqs/impulsive_softsphere.JPG)

The {u0} parameter can also be specified by a more physical model such
as the soft sphere scattering model "(Alexander12)"_#Alexander12. This
model uses the parameters {en_ratio}, the fraction of energy lost in
the collision and {eff_mass}, the effective mass of the surface atom
to determine the average final energy and then the average final
velocity {u0}. Within the soft sphere model, the average final
velocity will vary as a function of the final polar angle.

:c,image(Eqs/impulsive_tempvar.JPG)

Both the polar and azimuthal angular distribution are lobular in
nature and sharply peaked. These distributions can be represented
using the cosine power law distribution "Glatzer97"_#Glatzer97. The
peak of the azimuthal distribution remains at zero, while the peak of
the polar angle distribution is usually higher than the incident angle
(away from the normal). Hence the peak location (\theta_peak) and
cosine power (n) of the polar angle distribution and the cosine power
(m) of the azimuthal angular distribution are taken as input
parameters. A factor of 2 is present in the azimuthal distribution to
ensure the function remians positive within the range of the azimuthal
angle: (-180, 180)

:c,image(Eqs/impulsive_theta.JPG)

:c,image(Eqs/impulsive_phi.JPG)

The internal (rotational and vibrational) energy of an incident
molecule remains unchanged within the {impulsive} model unless the
optional keyword {intenergy} is specified (see below).

The {Tsurf} value can be specified as an equal-style
"variable"_variable.html.  If the value is a variable, it should be
specified as v_name, where name is the variable name.  In this case,
the variable will be evaluated each timestep, and its value used to
determine the current surface temperature.

Equal-style variables can specify formulas with various mathematical
functions and include "stats_style"_status_style.html command keywords
for the simulation box parameters and timestep and elapsed time.
Thus, it is easy to specify a time-dependent temperature.

:line

The {piston} style models a subsonic pressure boundary condition.  It
can only be assigned to the simulation box boundaries via the
"bound_modify"_bound_modify.html command or to surface elements which
are parallel to one of the box boundaries (via the
"surf_modify"_surf_modify.html command).

It treats collisions of particles with the surface as if the surface
were moving with specified velocity {Vwall} away from the incident
particle.  Thus the "collision" actually occurs later in the timestep
and the reflected velocity is less than it would be for reflection
from a stationary surface.  This calculation is performed using
equations 12.30 and 12.31 in "(Bird94)"_#Bird94) to compute the
reflected velocity and final position of the particle.  If the
particle does not return within the timestep to a position inside the
simulation box (for a boundary surface) or to the same side of the
initial surface that it started from (for a surface element
collision), the particle is deleted.  This effectively induces
particles at the boundary to have a velocity distribution consistent
with a subsonic pressure boundary condition, as explained in
"(Bird94)"_#Bird94).

{Vwall} should be chosen to correspond to a desired pressure condition
for the density of particles in the system.

NOTE: give more details on how to do this?

Note that {Vwall} must always be input as a value >= 0.0, meaning the
surface is moving away from the incident particle.  For example, in
the z-dimension, if the upper box face is assigned {Vwall}, it is
moving upward.  Similarly if the lower box face is assigned {Vwall},
it is moving downward.

:line

The {transparent} style simply allows particles to pass through the
surface without altering the particle properties.

This is useful for tallying flow statistics.  The surface elements
must have been flagged as transparent when they were read in, via the
"read_surf"_read_surf.html command and its transparent keyword.  The
"compute surf"_compute_surf.html command will tally fluxes differently
for transparent surf elements.  The "Section
6.15"_Section_howto.html#howto_15 doc page provides an overview of
transparent surfaces.  See those doc pages for details.

:line

The {vanish} style simply deletes any particle which hits the surface.

This is useful if a surface is defined to be an inflow boundary on the
simulation domain, e.g. using the "fix emit/surf"_fix_emit_surf.html
command.  Using this surface collision model will also treat the
surface as an outflow boundary.  This is similar to using the "fix
emit/face"_fix_emit_face.html command on a simulation box face while
also setting the face to be an outflow boundary via the "boundary
o"_boundary.html command.

Note that the "surf_react global"_surf_react.html command can also be
used to delete particles hitting a surface, by setting the {pdelete}
parameter to 1.0.  Using a surf_collide vanish command is simpler.

:line
:line

The keyword {translate} can only be applied to the {diffuse} and {cll}
style.  It models the surface as if it were translating with a
constant velocity, specified by the vector (Vx,Vy,Vz).  This velocity
is added to the final post-collisional velocity of each particle that
collides with the surface.

The keyword {rotate} can only be applied to the {diffuse} and {cll} style.  
It models the surface as if it were rotating with a constant angular
velocity, specified by the vector W = (Wx,Wy,Wz), around the specified
point P = (Px,Py,Pz).  Note that W and P define the rotation axis.
The magnitude of W defines the speed of rotation.  I.e. if the length
of W = 2*pi then the surface is rotating at one revolution per time
unit, where time units are defined by the "units"_units.html command.

When a particle collides with the surface at a point X = (x,y,z), the
collision point has a velocity given by V = (Vx,Vy,Vz) = W cross
(X-P).  This velocity is added to the final post-collisional velocity
of the particle.

The {rotate} keyword can be used to treat a simulation box boundary as
a rotating wall, e.g. the end cap of an axisymmetric cylinder.  Or to
model a rotating object consisting of surface elements, e.g. a sphere.
In either case, the wall or surface elements themselves do not change
position due to rotation.  They are simply modeled as having a
tangential velocity, as if the entire object were rotating.

IMPORTANT NOTE: For both the {translate} and {rotate} keywords the
added velocity can only be tangential to the surface, with no normal
component since the surface is not actually moving in the normal
direction.  SPARTA does not check that the specified translation or
rotation produces a tangential velocity.  However if does enforce the
condition by subtracting off any component of the added velocity that
is normal to the simulation box boundary or individual surface
element.

The keyword {partial} can only be applied to the {cll} style. Within
the CLL model, the energy and angular distribution are linked. Lord
"(Lord95)"_#Lord95 proposed a way to decouple the energy accommodation
from the angular distribution. This case of partially diffuse
scattering with incomplete energy accommodation can be activated in
SPARTA using the optional keyword {partial}. It requires an additional
parameter eccentricity set by the {eccen} argument. For this case, the
energy accommodation is calculated using the accommodation
coefficients, but the angular distribution is computed using the
additional parameter eccentricity. The {eccen} parameter can vary
between 0 and 1. A value of 0 represents fully diffuse scattering and
gives a cosine angular distribution. Increasing value of {eccen}
presents more peaked and lobular distribution "(Lord95)"_#Lord95.

The keywords {barrier}, {bond}, and {initenergy} can only be applied
to the {td} style. Due to the nature of the interaction between the
products and the surface, the desorption of the products might have an
energy barrier. For a surface desorption process, this desorption
barrier exists only in the normal direction. Thus, only the products
having enough energy (in the normal direction) to overcome the barrier
will be able to desorb from the surface. This alters the velocity
distribution of the observed products along the surface normal
direction and thus leads to the distortion of the speed distribution
"(Goodman72)"_#Goodman72.  The angular distributions, which represent
the ratio of the normal to the tangential velocities, are also altered
as a result of the desorption barrier. The angular distributions are
peaked more towards the normal and are often described by a cosine
power law distribution.

:c,image(Eqs/td_barrier_Tnorm.JPG)

:c,image(Eqs/td_barrier_dist.JPG)

In addition to the desorption energy barrier, products formed through
thermal mechanisms might have energies exceeding those corresponding
to the bulk surface temperature. The energy of the local surface
environment where the product formation occurs might be greater than
the normal surface temperature due to the formation of local hot-spots
"(Rettner94b)"_#Rettner94b.

These hot-spots might stem from the dissociation or bond energy of the
intermediates or the products.  The optional keyword {bond} can be
used to account for this scenario. This requires three arguments: the
amount of energy (in temperature units) going into the translational,
rotational and vibrational mode.
  
:c,image(Eqs/td_bond.JPG)

The higher energy during desorption might also arise due to the energy
deposited by high speed of the incoming gas-phase particles. Since the
formation of the products is rapid, the product might form and desorb
before this high energy dissipates from the local hot-spots
"(Beckerle90)"_#Beckerle90. In this case, although the products are in
thermal equilibrium with the surroundings, the energies of the
products might not depend only on the equilibrium surface temperature,
but also on the incoming velocities of the particles. This can be used
within SPARTA using the optional keyword {initenergy}. It requires 3
arguments: fraction of the initial translational energy going into the
translational, rotational and vibrational modes.

:c,image(Eqs/td_initenergy.JPG)

The keywords {step}, {double}, and {intenergy} can only be applied to
the {impulsive} style. In some cases, it is observed that the polar
angular distribution on either side of the peak is different. Goodman
"Goodman74"_#Goodman74 provided a physical reasoning for the observed
faster decay rate in the polar angular distribution away from the
normal with the surface assumed to consist of periodic steps of
average height H and average periodicity L. The ratio of the height to
periodicity is {epsilon} and the correction to the angular
distribution is given by

:c,image(Eqs/impulsive_step.JPG)

This optional argument can be accessed using the keyword {step}, and
{epsilon} parameter must be specified. Another optional argument to
specify the angular distribution of the products is the {double}
keyword. In this option, the angular distribution on either sides of
the peak are represented by a different cosine power decay. It
requires one argument {pol_pow_2}, which describes the distribution
between the peak and the surface. The distribution between the surface
normal and the peak is described using the parameter {pol_pow}.

The keyword {intenergy} can be used to modify the internal energy of
an incident molecule during collision. In the case of hyperthermal
collision the energy from the translational mode is transfered to the
internal modes. This keyword requires two input parameters {frac_rot}
and {frac_vib}. These specify the fraction of the change in
translational energy (difference between the final and initial)
transferred to the rotational and vibrational mode respectively.

:line

[Output info:]

All the surface collide models calculate a global vector of length 2.
The values can be used by the "stats_style"_stats_style.html command
and by "variables"_variable.html that define formulas.  The latter
means they can be used by any command that uses a variable as input,
e.g. the "fix ave/time"_fix_ave_time.html command.  See "Section
4.4"_Section_howto.html#howto_4 for an overview of SPARTA output
options.

The first element of the vector is the count of particles that hit
surface elements assigned to this collision model during the current
timestep.  The second element is the cummulative count of particles
that have hit surface elements since the current run began.

:line

Styles with a {kk} suffix are functionally the same as the
corresponding style without the suffix.  They have been optimized to
run faster, depending on your available hardware, as discussed in the
"Accelerating SPARTA"_Section_accelerate.html section of the manual.
The accelerated styles take the same arguments and should produce the
same results, except for different random number, round-off and
precision issues.

These accelerated styles are part of the KOKKOS package. They are only
enabled if SPARTA was built with that package.  See the "Making
SPARTA"_Section_start.html#start_3 section for more info.

You can specify the accelerated styles explicitly in your input script
by including their suffix, or you can use the "-suffix command-line
switch"_Section_start.html#start_6 when you invoke SPARTA, or you can
use the "suffix"_suffix.html command in your input script.

See the "Accelerating SPARTA"_Section_accelerate.html section of the
manual for more instructions on how to use the accelerated styles
effectively.

:line

[Restrictions:]

The {translate} and {rotate} keywords cannot be used together.

If specified with a {kk} suffix, this command can be used no more than
twice in the same input script (active at the same time).

[Related commands:]

"read_surf"_read_surf.html, "bound_modify"_bound_modify.html

[Default:] none

:line

:link(Bird94)
[(Bird94)] G. A. Bird, Molecular Gas Dynamics and the Direct
Simulation of Gas Flows, Clarendon Press, Oxford (1994).

:link(Cercignani71)
[(Cercignani71)] Cercignani C, Lampis M, Kinetic models for
gas-surface interactions, Transport theory and statistical physics,
Jan (1971).

:link(Lord90)
[(Lord90)] R. G. Lord, presented at the 17th International Symposium
on Rarefied Gas Dynamics, Germany, July (1990).

:link(Lord91)
[(Lord91)] R. G. Lord, Some extensions of the Cercignani-Lampis
gas-surface interaction model, Physics of Fluids A: Fluid Dynamics,
Jan (1991).

:link(SG18)
[(SG18)] K. Swaminathan Gopalan, Development of a detailed surface
chemistry framework in DSMC, AIAA Aerospace Sciences Meeting, Jan
(2018).

:link(Rettner94a)
[(Rettner94a)] C. T. Rettner, Reaction of an H-atom beam with
Cl/Au(111): Dynamics of concurrent EleyRideal and Langmuir-Hinshelwood
mechanisms, Journal of Chemical Physics, (1994).

:link(Alexander12)
[(Alexander12)] W. A. Alexander, {et al}, Kinematics and dynamics of
atomic-beam scattering on liquid and self-assembled monolayer
surfaces, Faraday discussions, (2012)

:link(Glatzer97)
[(Glatzer97)] D. Glatzer, {et al}, Rotationally excited NO molecules
incident on a graphite surface: in- and out-of-plane angular
distributions, Surface Science, (1997)

:link(Lord95)
[(Lord95)] R. G. Lord, Some further extensions of the
Cercignani-Lampis gas-surface interaction model, Physics of Fluids,
May (1995).

:link(Goodman72)
[(Goodman72)] F. O. Goodman, Simple model for the velocity
distribution of molecules desorbed from surfaces following
recombination of atoms, Surface Science, (1972).

:link(Rettner94b)
[(Rettner94b)] C. T. Rettner and J. Lee, Dynamic displacement of o2
from pt (111): A new desorption mechanism, The Journal of chemical
physics, (1994).

:link(Beckerle90)
[(Beckerle90)] J. Beckerle, A. Johnson, and S. Ceyer,
Collision-induced desorption of physisorbed CH4 from Ni (111):
Experiments and simulations, The Journal of Chemical Physics, (1990).

:link(Goodman74)
[(Goodman74)] F. O. Goodman, Determination of characteristic surface
vibration temperatures by molecular beam scattering: Application to
specular scattering in the H-LiF (001) system, Surface Science, (1974)
