"SPARTA WWW Site"_sws - "SPARTA Documentation"_sd - "SPARTA Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,http://sparta.sandia.gov)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

write_surf command :h3

[Syntax:]

write_surf file :pre

file = name of file to write surface element info to :ulb,l
zero or more keyword/args pairs may be appended :l
keyword = {points} or {fileper} or {nfile} :l
  {points} arg = {yes} or {no} to include a Points section in the file
  {fileper} arg = Np
    Np = write one file for every this many processors
  {nfile} arg = Nf
    Nf = write this many files, one from each of Nf processors :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

write_surf data.surf
write_surf data.surf points no
write_surf data.surf.% nfile 50 :pre

[Description:]

Write a surface file in text format describing the currently defined
surface elements, whether they be explicit or implicit surfaces.  See
the "read_surf"_read_surf.html and "read_isurf"_read_isurf.html
commands for a definition of surface elements and how they are defined
and used be SPARTA.  The surface file can be used for later input to a
new simulation or for post-processing and visualization.

Note that if surface objects were clipped when read in by the
"read_surf"_read_surf.html command then some surface elements may have
been deleted and new ones created.  Likewise for the points that
define the end points or corner points of surface element lines (2d)
or triangles (3d).  Similarly, if surface elements have been removed
by the "remove_surf"_remove_surf.html command, then points may have
also been deleted.  In either case, surface points and elements are
renumbered by these operations to create compressed, contiguous lists.
These lists are what is output by this command.

The file is written as a text file in the same format as the
"read_surf"_read_surf.html command reads in.  Note that a Points
section is optional.  If the {points} keyword is specified with a
value of {yes}, then a Points section is included in the file.  If the
value is {no}, then point coordinates are included with individual
lines or triangles.

Similar to "dump"_dump.html files, the surface filename can contain
two wild-card characters.  If a "*" appears in the filename, it is
replaced with the current timestep value.  If a "%" character appears
in the filename, then one file is written by each processor and the
"%" character is replaced with the processor ID from 0 to P-1.  An
additional file with the "%" replaced by "base" is also written, which
contains global information, i.e. just the header information for the
number of points and lines or triangles, as described on the
"read_surf"_read_surf.html doc page.

For example, the files written for filename data.% would be data.base,
data.0, data.1, ..., data.P-1.  This creates smaller files and can be
a fast mode of output and subsequent input on parallel machines that
support parallel I/O.  The optional {fileper} and {nfile} keywords
discussed below can alter the number of files written.

Note that implicit surfaces read in by the
"read_isurf"_read_isurf.html command can be written out by the
write_surf command, e.g. for visualization purposes.  But they cannot
be read back in to SPARTA via the "read_isurf"_read_isurf.html
command, because write_surf creates files in an explicit surface
format.  See the "Howto 6.13"_Section_howto.html#howto_13 section of
the manual for a discussion of explicit and implicit surfaces for an
explantion of explicit versus implicit surfaces as well as distributed
versus non-distributed storage.  You cannot mix explicit and implicit
surfaces in the same simulation.

:line

The optional {nfile} or {fileper} keywords can be used in conjunction
with the "%" wildcard character in the specified surface file name.
As explained above, the "%" character causes the surface file to be
written in pieces, one piece for each of P processors.  By default P =
the number of processors the simulation is running on.  The {nfile} or
{fileper} keyword can be used to set P to a smaller value, which can
be more efficient when running on a large number of processors.

The {nfile} keyword sets P to the specified Nf value.  For example, if
Nf = 4, and the simulation is running on 100 processors, 4 files will
be written, by processors 0,25,50,75.  Each will collect information
from itself and the next 24 processors and write it to a surface file.

For the {fileper} keyword, the specified value of Np means write one
file for every Np processors.  For example, if Np = 4, every 4th
processor (0,4,8,12,etc) will collect information from itself and the
next 3 processors and write it to a surface file.

:line

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:]

"read_surf"_read_surf.html, "read_isurf"_read_isurf.html

[Default:]

The default is points = yes.
